[music]
The global backdrop is healthy.
>> There are winners and losers that people
are picking right now.
>> Underneath the surface, there is both
tech and non- tech parts of the market
that is driving that charge higher.
>> As an investor, you need to be on your
toes and be ready for surprises.
>> There's definitely some dry powder
coming for next year. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Anmarie Hordern.
>> Good morning and merry Christmas Eve.
I'm Anie Hordern alongside Scarlet Food.
Jonathan is still on paternity [music]
leave and Lisa is on holiday, but we are
ending the year with stocks hitting
another record high yesterday, 38th for
the S&P 500. GDP data, of course, the
third quarter came in strong. Upside
surprise, but consumer [music] sentiment
still under pressure. President Trump
was out with a critique. Scarlet, thank
you for joining me this [music] morning.
Pleasure to be here.
>> He had a critique for what he is calling
quote the modern market. Yeah. He
doesn't like this whole good news as bad
news. When there's good economic data,
the market reacts negatively because
they start to get worried about
inflationary pressures and then start to
think ahead to oh, the Fed then needs to
raise interest rates and that causes
stock prices to go down. He is not in
favor of that. He wants the Fed to lower
rates [music] if the economy is doing
well. Good news is good news. He also
had to say alongside that truth social
post that anyone that doesn't agree with
him [music] will never be the Fed chair.
And I just have to think if you are
someone like Rick Reer, we know you have
an interview [music]
next week after Christmas at Mara Lago.
How are you going to talk about where
the economy is right now? Especially as
we are in this very precarious time. The
Fed has already cut three times. you do
have strong GDP, but the consumer
sentiment, what I found so interesting
about the number yesterday was the fact
that [music] a and some of the anecdotes
that individuals not so much nervous
about going out and purchasing. It's
actually they're nervous about the labor
market. They're nervous. They're still
spending, but they're nervous. And those
nerves end up translating often times
into voting for um a new candidate on
election day. And that's certainly what
the president [music] doesn't want to
see. I'm curious whether a Rick Reer or
any of the Fed chair candidates can
explain the bad news as good news
impulse in the markets as well. Well,
not that President Trump wants to see
bad economic news. That's an to him.
>> No, he doesn't. But that is what the
what he calls the modern market [music]
um takes its cues from. All right, let's
take a look at where uh equities are
trading this morning alongside the
broader markets. You do have slightly
muted a little bit of a pullback on the
S&P 500 futures, but as I said, 38th
record high yesterday we had for the S&P
500, notching another record high as we
go into Christmas. Looks like we're
going to get that Santa Claus rally.
Nothing really going on in the yield
space this morning. 4.16% [music] on
your 10-year. All the action once again
in the commodity space. Gold and silver.
Gold rose to an all-time high above
$4,500
an ounce and it is still holding on
basically to those gains. And at the
same time, we also have silver. Silver
has risen $150% [music]
this year. Both of these commodities are
on track for their best annual
performance since 1979. [music]
Coming up in the program, Michael Oor of
Jones Trading with stocks at fresh
record highs. Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy as the White House moves ahead
with $100,000 fees for visas and Tony
Romo's CEO Mina Hawk on how the
restaurant industry has navigated an
uncertain year for the consumer. We
begin this hours with stocks little
changed as the Santa Claus rally lifts
stocks to new all-time highs. Michael
Oor of Jones Trading writing, quote, "We
doubt most investors realize how
expensive the S&P 500 really is. There's
no doubt in our mind it is a bubble.
There is strong fundamental business
demand, but what matters is the price an
investor pays for it. Michael joins us
now. Michael, thank you so much for
joining us. So, you're bursting the
bubble a little bit this morning. How
should we think about going into next
year?
>> Yeah, I think as we we saw that GDP
report, the economy is doing very well.
Obviously AI is driving a lot of
spending, but we have asset prices that
are are very very much inflated and um
you know that quote has to do with the
top 20 market cap names in the S&P 500
are trading about 40 times uh trailing
earnings and that's if you take out
Tesla and 28 times forward earnings. So
that you know those are historically
high valuations, historically high
multiples and it's funny you're just
talking about the economy. I would say,
you know, we talk about the K-shaped
economy, uh, where the, you know, the
rich seem to get richer and everyone
else is left behind. It's the same thing
in the stock market. You have these top
20 names driving the, you know, the
overall market or obviously even the mag
will drive the overall market, but a lot
of stocks are being left behind on a
valuation basis. So there are many
attractive names out there, but that's
not where we are in the index level. But
do you still want to remain that
exposure to some of those high flyers,
those 20 odd names?
>> No, I think I think what what we've seen
in this market is a the crowding into
those mega cap names has led to crowding
out of many other highquality blue chip
names. So for example in the
pharmaceutical sector with everybody
chasing Lily because of Zbound you know
and GLP drugs a lot of large cap pharma
names have seen their multiples
depressed uh PE multiples to single
digits and they're you know they're
paying somewhere between a three to you
know 6 7% dividend yield. So there are
attractive areas to this market. I would
rotate out of those bigger names and
look, you know, down to the lower market
caps, but still blue chip names out
there in this market.
>> Down to the lower market caps. Would you
go so far as to start bidding up the
small caps? Every single time they look
like they're gaining some momentum, they
kind of lose uh steam and we start to
see everyone rotate back into the big
cap names because they can't get away
from them.
>> Well, so the the small caps are
interesting because they're really for
the most part uh an interest rate play
or or a Fed rate cut play. So most of
the momentum we see go into the Russell
2000 or the S&P 600 has to do with oh we
got a bad piece of economic data. The
Fed's going to lower rates or you know
inflation's coming in. I don't see they
they are more attractively valued or the
S&P 600 and the S&P 400 are more
attractively valued than the S&P 500 on
an index level. But you are in a lot of
cases just bouncing around with uh Fed
funds expectations whereas like I said
there's a lot of blue chip companies out
there even in the consumer staples space
um where you're seeing the multiples
come in and they're they're names that I
think you're getting at a discount that
you could put away for a long time
because everyone's crowding into the
mega caps and chasing this AI trade.
>> Yeah, you're talking about the bad news
is good news dynamic especially as it
plays out for small caps. Michael, what
do you worry about the most in 2026 in
terms of potential land mines? What is
the single biggest risk out there?
>> I I think this AI trades I I do think
it's a bubble. I think there's massive
speculation space. I think you're going
to see some of these deals start to
unwind or not come to fruition um as far
as funding rounds and things like that.
And I think that's going to spook
people. And you know, while the
technology is phenomenal, I think what
kind of got was lost by a lot of
investors is the disruption is pretty
easy. And we got our fir, you know,
first we saw a taste of that with
DeepSeek early at the beginning of this
year, but then last month when Google
came out with Gemini 3, people realized,
oh wow, someone could do this better and
they could do it with cheaper chips. So
I think that's a real risk to the, you
know, the so much money chasing the AI
trade start going into this new year.
Michael, when you look at the third
quarter GDP report, AI investment and
household consumption by obviously the
higher income Americans, that's 70% of
the growth, those two components
together for what we saw in the third
quarter of GDP obviously is rearview
mirror, but that's where the money was
spending AI investment. So if you think
that this is overdone, is it not just an
issue for the stock market? Is this also
a huge issue for the US economy, the
real economy?
Oh, I I I would think it is because
that's where the growth is, right? You
know, like you said, we talked about
this K-shaped economy and we have people
worried about jobs. The labor market
obviously has been under pressure since
the summer. So, if that slows down, it
is an issue. I mean, I was looking at
the contributions uh, you know, to
technology in you know, in investment
over the course of this year and I think
it totaled or equaled, you know, the
past several years. So, it's been strong
throughout the year. And the question is
can you continue at the same pace and
can can it continue to push this economy
forward. Now that said the president has
announced a lot of initiatives to
increase investment in this country and
some you know that appears to be coming
through. So I do think we have to see
that how it plays out in Q1 Q2 of next
year because right now it doesn't seem
like the momentum stopping. But again
even a slowdown will be you know a
problem for stocks. Like what a lot of
people forget is back in 2000 when the
internet bubble popped, you still had
companies like Cisco Systems growing
their revenues at at 50 and 60% you know
9 to 12 months after their stock peaked.
So there's still going to be fundamental
growth out there. It's just that
deceleration is what's going to spook
investors.
>> Well, speaking of spooky investors,
there were some concerns about the
credit market. uh you had first brands
tree earlier uh this quarter and of
course the AI bubble fears are starting
to show up as well. I look at uh Oracle
bonds and Oracle credit default
[clears throat] swaps. Do you see those
bubble fears that you mentioned earlier
showing up first in credit markets? And
if that's the case, are we starting to
see it already?
>> Well, it is interesting because as you
brought up, you know, we've seen that in
the auto sector. So, you've seen some
weakness there. I mean, the the the
tricky part with the credit space, the
private credit space for the most part,
is you really you really don't know
where the valuation, the true valuation
is. We've seen some private credit funds
list and they wind up listing at um or
private real estate funds listing at 75%
of NAV or 25% discount. So, you know,
there's more underlying weakness out
there. But again, it takes time to show
up. You know, without real pricing,
without transparent pricing and and
market pricing, it's hard to tell. But
again, if if you know, if you have uh
private credit managers get a little
more cautious out there and not writing
the loans for these projects or or you
know, or demanding tougher terms, again,
that becomes another potential headwind
for the market or for the economy.
>> Right. Right. I think about this
sellside strategist and their forecast
for the market overall and they are
almost uniformly bullish. Michael um
about 11% gain for the S&P 500 following
three straight years of doubledigit
growth. It feels like everyone's already
priced in everything which then leaves
room for external shocks really damaging
uh sentiment and therefore market
pricing.
>> Yeah. I mean when you look at when you
look at the environment we're in we have
uh equity valuations are extremely rich.
you know whether you compare it to you
know uh the Russell 2 3000 is about 240%
of GDP if you take public and private
stocks I think they're about 325 to 330%
of GDP these are record levels right um
you know Bloomberg intelligence came up
with a statistic that the largest 200
private uh private companies saw their
valuations increase by $2 trillion and
then you have the entire crypto space
out there which is another $3 trillion
so you have a lot of a lot of rich asset
prices out there and that will just make
you more vulnerable vulnerable to shocks
should a bad piece of news come along.
>> Michael, thanks so much for joining us
and merry Christmas to you and your
family. Michael Aor of Jones Trading.
Let's get you an update on stories we're
watching elsewhere this morning. Yahira
Anan is back with your Bloomberg brief.
Hey yra.
>> Good morning and Marie. A federal judge
says the Trump administration can move
ahead with a $100,000 fee on new H1B
visa applications. Analysts [music] say
the ruling is a setback for US tech
companies that rely on hiring skilled
foreign workers. But the judge says the
president [music] has the power to
impose the fee under an express
statutory grant of authority. The
[music] US Chamber of Commerce, which
sued to block the proposal, can appeal.
Meanwhile, the US is holding off on new
Chinese chip tariffs until at least mid
[music] 2027 despite accusing Beijing of
engaging in unfair trade [music]
practices in the sector. This comes as a
US trade representatives office released
the findings of a nearly year-long
inquiry into China's [music] chip
sector. The announcement focuses on
so-called foundational semiconductors
made in China which are used in sectors
such as autos and airplanes.
And shares of Dynavax soaring 37% in the
pre-markets [music]
and agreed to buy the California-based
company for $2.2 billion. [music]
The French drug maker is trying to
expand a vaccine's business currently
anchored by its flu shot franchise. The
[music] deal gives Synophia a hepatitis
B vaccine and an experimental shingles
vaccine. That's your Bloomberg brief.
Emry,
>> thanks so much. You hire in there. We
shall be back with [music] with our
grief and movers throughout the morning.
Up next, the push to hire American.
>> So, the whole idea is no more will these
big tech companies or other big
companies train foreign workers. They
have to pay the government $100,000.
Then they have to pay the employee. So
it's just not economic. Train Americans.
Stop bringing in people to take our
jobs.
Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy joins us
next on that story. You're watching the
Murk Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Good morning and merry Christmas.
Welcome to Bloomberg Surveillance. I'm
Amber Herd. Scarlett Fu woke up early to
join me this Christmas [music] Eve
morning. We have stock futures muted
this morning, pulling back just ever so
slightly. Yesterday, the S&P S&P 500 had
a new all-time high. the 38th all-time
high for the year. So, it does seem like
we will get that Santa Claus rally
[music] under surveillance this morning.
The push to hire Americans.
>> So, the whole idea is no more will these
big tech companies or other big
companies train foreign workers. They
have to pay the government $100,000.
Then they have to pay the employee. So,
it's just not economic. If you're going
to train somebody, you're going to train
one of the recent graduates from one of
the great universities across our land.
Train Americans. Stop bringing in people
to take our jobs. Here's the latest. A
federal judge ruled the Trump
administration can move forward with a
$100,000 fee on new H1B visa
applications. Bloomberg's Jonathan
Tamari joins us now. Jonathan, this been
a huge debate within the GOP. Is this a
win Trump has for his base?
Absolutely. I mean, the president has
campaigned on restricting immigration,
not just illegal immigration. He's
restricting legal immigration. This is
one way of doing it. And this is his
administration's way of saying that
these jobs that that many tech companies
are looking overseas for should go to
Americans. And they're trying to make
the price so prohibitive that they're
going to be hiring more American people.
As part of this lawsuit, they brought up
examples of companies that uh that laid
off American workers and then petitioned
to receive H-1B visas, and this is the
way that they say they're fighting that.
>> Jonathan Tamari, thank you so much for
joining us. I know we're going to have
an update with you as well in 60 Minutes
time in the next hour. Joining us now is
Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy. Um Terry,
I got to ask you, what do you make of
this? because tech CEOs have been going
to the White House and I imagine this
has been part of the discussion as well.
They want to make sure that they could
still get the best and the brightest
workers into the United States.
>> Oh, sure. Uh, merry Christmas and Marie
and to you and to Scarlet first and most
importantly, uh, yeah, they they go to
the White House and they talk about
these things, but you know, the the tech
CEOs have a long list and we all know
what they are. And uh the question is
whether or not uh uh H-1Bs are at the
very top of that list. And the answer is
almost certainly they're not compared to
AI and antitrust and competition and a
variety of other things. So yeah, they
are very important. Uh but you know what
you played with Lutnik there on the
bumper uh has been very consistently the
administration's policy that uh what it
wants to do is not just you know not
just keep those jobs here uh but to
train people up in the United States so
that there's greater reliance on a
United States workforce and frankly uh
greater reli greater ability of that
workforce to deal with the 21st century
tech challenges in AI and elsewhere. So,
uh, you know, this is, uh, this is not
just a matter of the administration,
uh, flexing its own power. It's got a
policy point behind it.
>> Terry, though, the president in 2024 was
on the All-In podcast and he said that
what he wants to do is that if you
graduate from a college, I think you
should get automatically as part of your
diploma, a green card to be able to stay
in this country. That includes junior
colleges, too. What happened to that
idea? Um, I think it probably got I
think they want a an idea like that, but
I think what ends up happening here is
that it becomes less important uh when
against the uh the broader push on uh on
H-1Bs.
>> Terry, is this issue resolved? I mean, I
know the US Chamber of Commerce uh was
the one that initiated the lawsuit in
October, and we know that following this
ruling, the Chamber of Commerce can
certainly appeal the ruling, but in
their mind, is this something that's
pretty much a done deal? and you know
the the organizations they represent can
kind of move forward.
>> Oh, I imagine they'll appeal it,
Scarlet. You know, there's uh the the
the thing that markets need to
understand is that there are 677
United States District Court judges. You
know, there's always a District Court
judge making a ruling on something. Uh
there are two appeal levels above that.
I have every confidence the Chamber of
Commerce will continue to appeal. Uh you
know that said a the arguments the
chamber and a lot of other folks make
including the state of California uh in
trying to overturn this policy or are
telling all by itself. California for
example said that it you know one of the
re two of the reasons that was pushing
back against the administration uh was
because of the negative implications uh
it would have for education and
healthcare. Now if you think broad more
broadly about uh the the kind of
immigration policies that say Gavin
Newsome is interested in uh you know
that the politicization of that becomes
obvious.
>> Well speaking of decisions that we're
awaiting of course the sup Supreme Court
is scheduled at some point in the new
year to come out with its ruling on uh
Trump's tariffs, those reciprocal
tariffs. Um how what what's priced in
right now? What is kind of the base case
here? It it seems as if given the
arguments that have been heard and the
responses we've gotten from justices, it
is that the Supreme Court will roll with
those back.
>> Uh the base case is that the uh is that
the tariffs go away. Uh I'm very much
non-consensus on this. Uh as you might
know, uh the for two reasons. One is
that the court does not dispute the
fundamental seriousness of the economic
emergency. In other words, uh the
court's not trying to evaluate whether
or not there is an economic emergency or
not. That actually wasn't even, you
know, that wasn't among the questions
presented, wasn't discussed, anything.
[snorts] Secondly, uh there are plenty
of uh other tariff authorities that the
president can use should this one be
turned back. Uh thirdly, I think the
court probably gives the the if there's
an infirmity in the statute, the court
probably gives the the the Congress an
opportunity to correct it. And the
Congress in fact will have that
opportunity in uh what's now being
called big beautiful bill 2.0
reconciliation bill that I think comes
up probably in the first quarter of
calendar 26. Uh so all this together
means that the wishing and hoping that
there's going to be some massive tariff
roll back and people are going to get a
windfall is completely off base.
>> Terry, when it comes to the GDP data
yesterday, a lot of this is AI
investment. You had Kevin Hasset
speaking to some reporters talking about
the boom in AI. Trump in November says
he loves AI. He's not worried about it.
How do you see this debate playing out
in Washington though when you have
individuals like Steve Bannon talking
about constantly that AI might mean
layoffs by more Americans.
>> The administration has made the decision
uh that AI is the tail that wags the
dog. I think that AI is the key to
everything. Right or wrong, I think
that's what they do. They talk the
national security strategy is very plain
about that. The so-called Genesis
mission or Genesis project that Trump
announced is very plain about that. Uh
even the uh even the defense
department's uh draft report on the
Chinese military threat that came out
earlier this week is very plain on that.
So uh I think that's beyond debate uh
frankly within the administration. And I
think that every policy that every
policy economic or otherwise uh that uh
that gets discussed uh gets discussed
and decided through the AI prism.
>> I wonder what you make of the Gallup
polling we had this week about Trump's
approval rating especially when it comes
to the economy. Even among independents
his support has a low um of 25%.
Americans are just not feeling
everything the administration is
touting. Do you think potentially going
to the midterm elections they will make
the same mistake the Biden
administration made?
>> Uh two points. Uh one is that one is
more obvious than the other I think. One
is that the uh the midterms are almost a
year away. And in a situation where
you've got 10% or more of the House,
which is really what uh what's in play
here, uh the the tiny House majority,
10% or more of the House uh seats are
not only open, but we're not sure
entirely who's going to be running for
them. I think it's awfully premature to
assume that the Democrats will sweep
those. Secondly, I do not think the
administration is going to make the same
mistake that it did on uh uh that the
Biden administration did on assuming
everybody understands what they think
and you know will conform to it. Uh
finally uh you know I think people need
to understand that the president uh is
the most popular politician in America.
I carry no water for Trump by saying
that. I will say that Trump's favorable
unfavorable last week was minus9
compared to minus14 for Republicans,
minus 23 for Democrats overall. And that
right track, wrong track since the 20th
of January uh has improved roughly by
half. Last week it was uh 16 12 roughly
and January 20th it was 32. Uh they will
attack the affordability problem
strongly. They don't care about
ideology. They'll they'll attack it any
way they can that makes sense and
they've got a lot of time to do it. So I
I don't uh I I don't look for success. I
look for a completely different approach
than the Biden people uh made.
>> Terry, [music] thank you so much and
merry Christmas to you and your fair
family. Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy.
Coming up in the program, our
conversation with the American Airline
CEO Robert Isim on the state of travel
heading into the holiday. Plus, Yah is
back with your morning movers. Nike is
up as Apple CEO Tim Cook buys more than
$2 million worth of shares. [music]
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning and merry Christmas.
[music]
Good morning and merry Christmas. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance. I'm Amry Herd
[music] alongside Scarlet Food today.
She was lucky enough to draw the short
straw and join me very early in the
morning. Jonathan Pharaoh is still on
paternity leave [music] and Lisa is off
for the week. We do have equity futures
really muted. Obviously, [music] there's
lots of low volume today because we are
going into Christmas tomorrow. We should
note that though the S&P 500 had another
all-time high yesterday, the 38th
all-time high [music]
of this year. Switch up the boards a
little bit. We aren't really seeing much
when it comes [music] to the bond space.
um especially after what we saw
yesterday um when we saw [music] a
little bit more red on the screen in
terms of after that GDP print and in the
FX market we have the dollar dropping
for a third day but once again holiday
[music] volumes are thin close to 118 on
Euro dollar this morning we're [music]
three hours away from the cash open
here's your morning movers with Yahira
Yahira hi and Marie SPI is shopping for
growth buying this company [music] here
Davabax in a $2.2 2 billion cash deal to
expand its vaccine portfolio. But the
most fascinating part about this deal
was the [music] timing because the
statement came just minutes after US
regulators delivered [music] a blow to
Seni by surprisingly rejecting its drug
for MS. But Dynavax for its part shares
are soaring 37.5%
[music] in the pre-market. Also rising
in the pre-market are Nike shares up
2.2% 2% after Apple CEO Tim [music] Cook
stepped in to buy the dip. He's on he's
on Nike's board and he purchased nearly
$3 million worth of shares [music] after
Nike uh disappointed with results last
week which sent the stock down more than
10%. We'll see if 2026 is Nike's
turnaround year. Uh [music] Tim Cook
seems to think so. And we end on AS
Mobile. This is a a space company taking
on [music] SpaceX. It just took a big
step in the space race. So shares are up
2.2% after it launched its largest
[music]
ever satellite from India. The goal is
to beam cell service to smartphones here
on Earth. Uh putting it in [music]
direct competition with SpaceX's
Starlink and it plans to la have dozens
[music] more launches in the next year.
Any thanks so much. So Tim Cook is the
longest serving member of Nike's board
of directors. [music] He's going out
making his purchase, but you actually
said maybe he's going to be the new
brand ambassador. He he is often
photographed wearing Nike sneakers and
like very custom high-end Nike sneakers.
Uh the Sashiko Gals Nike Vomero Plus. He
wore that in 2025 earlier this year.
[music] Uh this was during an Apple
Ginsa store reopening. It was really
featured during that time. He also wore
the Nike Air Max [music] 186 and the
Nike Epic React Fly and Phantom React
Fly as well. I mean, I don't even know
what these uh either do I look like, but
they sound impressive
>> and clearly he's he's a [music] huge fan
of them. All right, so maybe um you
know, low-key brand ambassador, an
influencer in Tim Cook for for Nike. On
our radar this morning, President Trump
reiterating his call for lower interest
rates, posting on Truth Social that the
next Fed chair should ease policy if the
market is doing well. Trump says, quote,
"Anybody that disagrees with me will
never be the Fed chairman." Okay, so
keep that in mind, Rick Reer, FYI,
before you go sit down with the
president of the United States next week
at Mara Lago for your interview. But in
all seriousness, based on what I
understand of how the president was
conducting interviews in the first round
when he ultimately ended up with
choosing Jay Powell, the one question he
asked and cared about was, "Will you and
are you willing to lower interest
rates?" That's the key question. That is
the key question, but also how they look
and what they sound like as they're
making their case uh to the White House
and to the public matters a lot. We know
the finalists, you know, there's been
this like race, horse race between the
different Kevins, Kevin Walsh, Kevin
Hasset, Chris Waller still in the mix as
well. So, I feel like the president's
going to milk this one for as long as he
can in order to create the most drama. I
mean, he is a showman after all.
>> He is a showman. I mean, yesterday he
did actually talked about the master he
was the master of ceremonies for the
Kennedy honors and he said, "Maybe if I
do some well that
>> from Kennedy Center, excuse us."
>> Yes. and he said that maybe if I do so
well that's that's another career move
move he can have but in all seriousness
the president does want does want to
make this not just so much for the drama
but I always find that he does take his
time with decisions that have to do with
US capital with the financial markets
think about how the Treasury race ran
and think about how the last Fed search
ran this Fed decision we were supposed
to have really in early fall that's what
I was told in April by Secretary Scott
Besset. Now, we're not going to get this
decision until 2026.
>> Yeah, he is thoughtful when it comes to
something that affects global markets
and global investors because he knows
that that is one of the ultimate yard
sticks by which people judge his
administration. So yes, this is
something that he's going to consider
carefully, but we know as you've pointed
out that he wants someone who wants
lower interest rates and ultimately they
want to reduce mortgage rates so that
affordability in housing becomes
something that uh is really a pillar of
the Trump administration the second time
around.
>> Going to be a huge debate how many times
the Fed is able to cut next year. The
White House also introducing plans to
potentially expand coverage for Medicare
and Medicaid to include GLP1s for weight
loss and diabetes. The model would allow
the administration to negotiate directly
with manufacturers for lower prices and
standardized coverage. And elsewhere,
commodities rising to new record highs
as the everything rally takes hold into
year end. Copper prices climbing to over
$12,000 a ton with gold, silver, and
platinum all reaching new all-time highs
on track for their best year in decades.
I mean, when you look at this, silver
150% for the year. Gold up 70% for the
year. And most people are saying the
rally is relentless. It's going to
continue into next year,
>> right? Especially for things like
industrial metals like copper. You have
increased demand for the AI buildout.
You also have in the rest of the world,
perhaps not in the US, the clean energy
buildout. And copper is an important uh
material for that. In addition, the
ongoing questions about whether the US
will tariff copper has led to a lot of
stockpiling in the US. So there's a big
difference between copper prices traded
in London and in New York. Then you've
got the shortages uh due to uh mine
outages in Chile and Indonesia. So it's
kind of a perfect storm for copper.
>> Absolutely. And when it comes to gold,
you have central banks continuously
buying. A lot of that has to do with US
policy as well. When we saw Russia's
invasion of Ukraine, you saw a lot of
central banks say, you know what, we're
going to shrug some of our dollar
holdings and actually put more of that
capital into gold. Turning to travel
now, airlines are in the midst of a
record-breaking holiday season. Lisa
Brahmovit sat down with American
Airlines CEO Robert Isim and asked him
about consumer demand.
Let's start with the holiday season.
Everyone is getting ready to fly uh
sometimes with family, sometimes to
family, sometimes to avoid family. What
do the bookings look like so far?
>> We're really pleased with how we see the
Christmas and New Year holidays shapen
up and and even more so as we take a
look out into the into the the the first
quarter of 2026. you know, the
government shutdown. It it had a
dampening effect on on demand, but I
really like what I've seen in terms of
bookings post that and we're ready. Uh,
you know, an airline is a a big complex
operation and it takes people and
equipment and, you know, systems to all
be working. Uh, we've double triple
checked and I'm so proud of our team.
They're ready.
>> So, we've heard from Delta, we've heard
from United, we've heard from another a
number of other airlines about the hit
to revenues in the fourth quarter as a
result of the government shutdown. I
don't believe that American has come out
with anything like that. Do you have
[clears throat] some sort of estimate of
what type of revenue was lost due to the
cancellations during the government
shutdown?
>> Well, it's just been a month ago that we
were talking about uh our our third
quarter earnings and and talking about
what we were envisioning for the fourth
quarter and really optimistic about
bookings that that had happened. And at
the time we were, you know, in the midst
of of of government shutdown, but the
impact was was fairly light. you know,
at the time we were saying less than a
million dollars, you know, per per day.
But as things developed and then we got
to the mandated pullbacks, um, look,
there was an impact and it was
substantial. Uh, and it not only was it,
uh, for the day of travel and the
cancellations that might have happened
or the disruptions, but it was also for
the bookings that would have happened
during that period. And so there was a
dampening effect during during the
period. Again, the good news is that as
soon as we get out of that disruption,
as soon as we get to really having an
airline uh uh system that people have
confidence in, they come back to travel.
And so that's what gives me great
optimism for uh the the holidays and as
we look into the into the first quarter.
I have to be honest, when I talk to
people in the industry, the sense of
palpable frustration that this is sort
of the hot potato in any kind of
negotiation is really notable,
especially heading into potentially
another government shutdown in January.
Is there anything you can do to get
ahead of it?
>> Well, I I don't I don't like that. Uh
aviation is critical infrastructure to
the country and I think everybody in in
the administration, everybody in the
House and Senate uh realize that we have
to do the things to keep critical
infrastructure running. And while it's
commercial aviation, I'd also say, you
know, other, you know, really important
industries, drones and evatls and
anything that depends that's taking into
account air mobility depends on air
traffic control and we can't use it, you
know, really as a uh a battleground. So,
I'm confident that uh our our
politicians will get together and figure
out a way. It starts with protecting our
air traffic controllers. Nobody should
be asked to come to work and not be paid
and nobody should be used as a pawn in
in in a a political negotiation. So, I'm
really hopeful that by the time we get
into January, this will be long behind
us.
>> In the meantime, the airline industry is
incredibly competitive, as you know, and
uh we've heard Delta and United talk
about their premium offering, talk about
increasing their revenue. United in
particular, Scott Kirby, has come out
and said that United and Delta are kind
of taking off and apart from American
Airlines. How are you fighting back
given that that's the backdrop that you
have?
>> Wouldn't they like to be that to be so?
It's [laughter] absolutely not. It's
absolutely not true. And as a matter of
fact, you take a look at American
Airlines history. We're the ones that
developed the frequent flyer programs
and air airport lounges and the hub and
spoke system and global distribution
systems. There's a there's just an ethos
of innovation at American Airlines. And
really the investments that we've made
uh over the last decade are all set uh
to come about and and be ready for where
customers want to go. So I was flying
back from from London over the weekend
and our new flagship suite on our 7879P
uh and you know I can tell you that
hands down that is the best product
among any of the network carriers in
terms of of of of experience. This year
we've we've announced uh the opening of
the new Philadelphia flagship lounge.
Uh, we've got a Miami flagship and a
Charlotte flagship coming. Nobody has
more more premium quality lounges than
American Airlines. We're going to do a
better job at packaging this all
together. We have an extreme focus on
customer experience. We got a new
organization that's just totally
dedicated to that. And just about every
week there's a new announcement with
Lovata Coffee, our champagne bologing,
uh, or you know, Raven and Lily amenity
kits. Uh I'm really excited about that
all being packaged and us, you know,
certainly, you know, talking about that
in a fashion that that people
understand. You know, we've got the best
loyalty program, we got the best
product, and it's where people should be
flying.
>> One thing that American Airlines has for
it is it's more focused on the domestic
regime than some of the other
competitors. And I'm just wondering if
there's an effort to sort of expand the
international network as that does
become a higher margin offering for so
many airlines.
>> Well, that's right. in this year that
exposure to the domestic uh region it
had an adverse impact on us. We didn't
have as much international exposure.
International did very well over the
course of the year. Domestic not so so
much. So we had uncertainty the you know
the accident with 5342. So there was a
lot of things that we had to overcome
and and and we've done that but I feel
really good about where we're headed. Uh
and when it comes to international uh
we're ready.
>> That was Lisa Brahmovitz with American
Airlines CEO Robert Isum. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Yahira is back with your
Bloomberg brief. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi Anorie. We start with the latest on
the war in Ukraine. Ukrainian President
Vladimir Zalinski says his country and
the US in [music] the US remains split
primarily on territorial issues and
talks on a peace plan to end the war.
Ukraine rejects Russia's demand to give
up land in eastern [music] Donetsk,
fearing it would leave the country
vulnerable to a new Russian attack. Now,
the latest on the roll out of the
Jeffrey Epstein files. The Justice
Department has released a second batch
of documents from its investigation into
the [music] late sex offender. Many of
them contain references to President
Trump, including a 2020 email from a
prosecutor that detailed Trump's trips
[music] on Epstein's private plane in
the 1990s. President Trump has said
those trips never took place.
And the US Supreme Court has refused to
let President Trump deploy National
Guard troops in Chicago. [music] A
majority of judges ruled that the
administration failed to identify a
source of authority that would allow the
military to execute the laws. The move
is a setback to Trump's drive to use the
military in cities across the country.
Essie Henry, thank you so much. Up next,
the state of the consumer.
>> The consumers in pretty good shape,
spending more money, employed, and
earning more money, but differences
between different types of consumers and
then being wise in how they spend. if
they, you know, they trade down and all
the things you're hearing the retailers
talk about are true, but the aggregate
amount of moving in the economy is still
growing.
>> Nina Hawk of Tony Romos joins us next.
[music]
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Merry Christmas and good morning. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance. I'm Amar
Hordern alongside Scarlet Food. Today we
do have equity futures pulling back just
ever so slightly, [music] but S&P 500
yesterday hit a new all-time record
high, 38th of the year. All the action
once again [music] this week in the
commodity space, gold, silver, gold is
up 70% this year. Silver is up 150%
[music]
this year. And what you hear from the
street, what you hear from analysts is
they expect this rally in the commodity
space to continue. Moving on, under
surveillance this morning, the state of
the consumer,
>> the American American consumer spending
at you 4ish% more November this year
versus November last year is a very
solid backdrop. the consumers in pretty
good shape, spending more money,
employed and earning more money, but
differences between different types of
consumers and then being wise in how
they spend if they, you know, if they
trade down and all the things you're
hearing the retailers talk about true,
but the aggregate amount of moving in
the economy is still growing.
>> Here's the latest. US consumer
confidence falling for its fifth
consecutive month as negative views
around the labor market and business
conditions persist. [music] Mina Hawk,
the CEO of the international restaurant
chain Tony Romas, writes, "Low
confidence and sticky price perceptions
are influencing dinein frequency and
check size." Mina joins us now. Mina,
thank you so much for joining us,
especially on this Christmas Eve. Give
us a sense of what you've seen change
with a consumer this year.
>> Thank you for having me. uh for
consumers at Tony Rome as you know we
are located all over the world and the
United States while there is a perceived
value because of the macroeconomic
factors of um you know where we get
reviews of people um showing frustration
about uh the price of the menu. However,
when I look at the sales data over the
last four years, I am seeing systemwide,
we are progressively seeing a sharp
increase.
>> So, when it comes to what does that mean
when consumers are at the actual
restaurant, are they still coming in and
just going for less options, potentially
ordering less off the menu? Are they
looking for days when potentially, I
don't know if you run any sort of
promos, how are you actually weathering
the storm?
So from a consumer point of view, what
happened is if you let's say they like
our ribs, right? And they try to compare
the data maybe from a year or two ago.
However, in our system, we try to keep
the pricing quite stable. We don't try
to pass any difference to consumers
because of any macroeconomic factors.
But when it comes to pricing, yes, we do
run promos. There are deals. There are
limited time offers where our franchise
partners if they want they can
participate in it in units where they
are participating in this promos. They
are seeing a very sharp increase in
consumer demand.
>> Let's talk a little bit about beef
prices because that's something that's
obviously featuring prominently on your
menus. Uh we've seen beef prices uh go
up 2.1% for ground beef in September. uh
that is up from 15 that is up 15% from a
year ago. How is that being folded into
your menu offerings and menu pricing? I
know that you say you don't want to be
raising prices but at some point the
margins on that the costs on that become
kind of ownorous.
>> Yes, I agree with you. Um there are many
macroeconomic headwinds out there right
now. But this also give us the
opportunity look into the microeconomics
of our unit and see what we can do when
it comes to pricing. Our initial
reaction is not to pass those difference
to consumers. But are we feeling
pressure? Yes, we are. The margins are
thin. Restaurant industry overall
operates on a very thin margin. But in
my opinion, what I am seeing is the
macroeconomic factors are actually
allowing us to look into the restaurant
systems overall and see where are
opportunities to cut back on cost. Um
while the food cost it is high because
of various reasons but are there many
options? Are there enough suppliers? How
can we diversify our supply ecosystem?
These are the questions we are asking
internally. while before maybe the
restaurants operated on a status quo for
many years.
>> And I appreciate you're saying that. So,
can you give us some more specific
examples of your cutting back on cost
that in a way that might be visible to
your customer?
>> Um, for example, one of the biggest
areas of cost is labor. uh while we like
to protect the jobs and make sure that
you know our workforce remains
competitive due to AI and the
technological innovation that is one
area where we can see some more
opportunities to be far more efficient.
Our corporate staff size have reduced
drastically but we are much more
efficient due to the technological
advancements. So are you basically
saying that because of AI you were able
to shed some employees?
>> We're not shedding employees. What we're
did doing is let's say if there were
five employees um at the corporate level
doing up work because of AI the
turnaround of projects the data
integration have become much faster. We
have robotic server in some of our
select locations but we are not cutting
back on employees. But what we are
becoming is much more efficient. the
work of each and every employee where I
see it is because of AI and the data
integration will become a lot easier and
the operation will be much more
efficient.
>> When you're looking for 2026, anything
you can tell us on maybe expansion plans
or any changes in the menu
>> in terms of expansion plan? Uh we just
reopened in Guam. We had presence in
Guam for a very long time. A local
military couple just recently last week
reopened our Guam unit and with a very
remodeled and it's modern and local
military community is extremely enjoying
the Tony Rome over there. Um we are
going back to Calgary. Um the energy
sector over there is doing a comeback
and Calgary is a very vital market for
us. We're anticipating an opening in
quarter two. We are growing in Asia
Pacific. We are looking into the Middle
East as well.
>> Okay. So, even as you undergo this
expansion, we know that Tony Romas is a
50-year-old restaurant brand. There's a
certain brand legacy that you need to
protect even as you adapt it for the
2020s. And even the slightest tweak can
backfire sometimes. They think about the
backlash to Cracker Barrel's logo
change. How do you modernize the Tony
Roma's look and experience without
alienating customers in the process?
when we're modernizing it, we are not,
you know, changing our logo or our brand
palette because that's how our customers
identify with us. What we're doing is
internally we're trying to see where are
the areas of improvement.
>> Thank you so much, Mina, for spending
your Christmas Eve morning with us. That
of course is Tony Roma's CEO, Mina Hawk.
Great question, Scarlet. I was thinking
about that when it comes to the
restaurant industry, the one story that
stuck with me all year was Cracker
Barrel.
>> It's such a cautionary tale.
>> Absolutely. What do you do? And to
Nina's point, she's saying you don't
want to touch that. Something that's
very traditional. You don't want to
touch that.
>> And if you do, you do it very
incrementally. You're not going to do a
drastic change. I mean, I think about
that logo every time I drive on certain
highways because you see the Cracker
Barrel sign and the billboards
everywhere.
>> And what we've seen since July is
actually that the stock has actually
continuously suffered from that. I think
it helped that it got some press for a
while. Even the White House and Trump
was weighing in at one point for it
cultural moment.
>> But in the end, I guess the line is you
don't want to break or fix what's not
broken.
>> I think that's a good way of putting it.
>> Yes. All right. Coming up in the
program, Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth, Mattel CEO Enan [music] Cries,
and Joyce Attitude of Vincent and Echans
International. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance on this Christmas Eve
morning.
Volumes are low. We do have equity
futures in the red, but [music] nothing
to fret about. The Santa Claus rally
right now. The S&P 500 had a 38th record
high of the year just yesterday, [music]
and we're still looking at double digit
gains for a now fourth year. So, yes.
So, the bull market continues. [music]
[music]
>> [music]
>> Heat.
>> The global backdrop is healthy.
>> There are winners and losers that people
are picking right now.
>> Underneath the surface, there is both
tech and non- tech parts of the market
that is driving that charge higher.
>> As an investor, you need to be on your
toes and be ready for surprises.
>> There's definitely some dry powder
coming for next year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Good morning and merry Christmas. Merry
Christmas Eve. I'm Amry Hardurn
alongside Scarlet Food this morning.
Jonathan is still on paternity leave and
Lisa is on holiday. We are ending the
year with stocks [music] hitting another
record high, the 38th for the S&P 500
yesterday at the close. Yesterday we got
GDP data for third quarter. It came in
strong, but consumer sentiment is under
pressure. What I found so interesting as
well from the consumer um conference
board was that consumers are worried
about the labor market and where
potentially they might get their next
leg higher in terms of wages and and pay
growth. President Trump come out right
after all that data and how the market
was reacting. Scarlet, he was [music]
critical of what he calls the modern
market and then he had a few choice
words to say for his future Fed
chairman. Yeah. And I think this is
super interesting [music] because when
he gets good economic data, he thinks
the market should celebrate that. And
what we've seen, of course, is this
worry among investors that the good data
suggests that the economy is doing well
enough that inflation could be a problem
again. And so therefore, that might lead
to interest rate hikes or [music] at
least a less dovish Fed. And you see
stock prices and other risky assets
decline. That's the opposite of what he
wants to see. He wants good data to mean
good news for the market. The problem
right now with this data, at least the
data we got yesterday and then of course
the Conference Board sentiment survey,
the data is so stale. Well, it was
before the government shutdown and
you're seeing some analysts say that
actually we saw people want to buy ahead
for ahead of the holidays, especially if
they worried if some uh corporations
were going to start passing on some of
the tariffs,
>> the stockpiling.
>> Yeah. So, what really is going to matter
is the data, [music] the inflation data
and the jobs data we get in January,
>> right? And the other problem there is
that we might get another government
shutdown in late January as well. So,
the data is not going to be [music]
clean for a while, right? I mean, if
you're looking for January data, that's
not going to come until February. So,
it's going to be a while. It's going to
be a while. Volume's low this morning as
we check in on the markets. Of course,
that is because many of you are maybe
working from home or not working at all.
You do have S&P 500 futures pulling back
ever so slightly. 38th record high
yesterday. We are basically mutant
unchanged. Scarlet, all the action once
again. The commodity space absolute
[music] tear. That's just today's
intraday. This year, gold is up 70%,
silver up 150%, best year since 1979.
[music] Yeah, those gains don't really
do this year's advances any justice,
right? Because gold up 70%, silver up
150%, it's not just a precious metal,
it's also an industrial metal. And
there's a lot of demand [music] for
these industrial metals, platinum,
copper, silver. Uh you have things like
the AI buildout. You also have outside
the US the buildout of green energy. All
of that means there's a lot of demand
for those uh materials at a time when
there are question marks especially for
copper about US tariffs too,
>> right? We knew that President Trump
[music] does love to use tariffs and
this has been weighing on copper really
for the last two quarters. Individuals
are weighing whether or not [music] he
is going to increase that tariff rate.
Coming in the program, Cameron Dawson of
New Edge Wealth with stocks at an
all-time high. The Mattel CEO on how the
toy maker is mitigating tariff risk
ahead of Christmas. You will get an
update on the dolls and Joyce attitude
of Vincent and Elkins on charting a path
to possible tariff refunds. We begin
this hour with stocks little changed
following the S&P 500 closing at another
record. Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth saying equities are undeniably
expensive and there are signs of
complacency, but this market can chop to
new highs. Cameron joins us now. Uh
Cameron, give us a sense of what new
highs and merry Christmas to you. What
new highs we can have when it comes to
equity markets next year.
>> Well, good morning and merry Christmas.
I think it's time to dust off the old
adage which is respect the trend but
don't ignore the risks as we go into
2026. Respecting the trend appreciates
the fact that we're still very much in
an uptrend in this market and it's also
being led by pro- cyclical areas. You
mentioned industrial commodities
earlier. You also have leadership in
things like banks as well as transport
starting to turn higher. So there's a
pro-yclical message coming out of this
market. And you also have a very
important uptrend in earnings estimates
and GDP estimates. And this has been the
key fundamental underpinning as to why
we keep being able to press to new
highs. As long as you're revising
estimates higher, that's usually a good
environment for risk-taking. So the
second half of that is don't ignore the
risks. And that's where we look at
things like valuations. We look at signs
of things like complacency within
markets. Look at the VIX turning ever
lower each and every day. And so it
could be in an environment where we're
still able to carve out new highs
because of those earnings estimates, but
there could be some volatility in chop
along the way simply because you have a
high bar with valuations and a high bar
with expectations as well.
>> But you still think positioning is not
yet stretched. What would get us to that
point?
>> Our favorite measure is looking at the
Deutsche Bank consolidated equity
positioning. And this is really
measuring institutional positioning. And
what's fascinating there is that we're
in the 62nd percentile, which is just
about slightly overweight. But if you
look at discretionary investors, they're
still just neutral. And so we think that
there's still room for more people to
get dragged into this market. But if
we're talking about positioning, we also
have to mention households as well. And
that's where you cannot make the
argument that people are underway
equities. You can look at the AI survey
that looks at equity positioning. That's
at the highest level it's been since
peaks like 2018 and 2022. We've talked a
lot about how margin loans have grown
extraordinarily over the last 6 months
at about a 40% clip. So, there are
certainly signs that households are very
fully invested, but some institutional
investors have still sat on the
sidelines, which just is likely why over
the last 6 months or so, every dip has
gotten bought so rather quickly.
>> Yeah. talk a little bit more about that
that money that's sitting on the
sidelines, the dry powder, if you will.
Um, we've talked a lot in the past about
money market funds and how there's more
than 7 trillion dollars of money just
sitting there waiting to be deployed.
Um, maybe retail investors are fully
invested, but that doesn't take away
from the fact that there's always that
possibility they could put more into the
market. How are you thinking about what
would what it would take to get that
money to be put to work? Yeah, we've
never considered the money market funds
as exactly fungeable funds that could go
into equities, meaning that these were
savings and cash balances that were
typically held in cash savings accounts
versus just things that were anxious and
waiting to go into equities. maybe at
the margin as you see those money market
funds start to fall it does incentivize
people to look for other investments but
it's not necessarily a direct line
straight into the equity market. So
certainly money market rates falling
could push investors into looking into
other areas instead of just sitting on
the sidelines and clipping coupons but
not necessarily $7 trillion of a wall of
money that will go into equities. So
this Santa rally that we have right now,
how much of it is driven by technical
factors like positioning versus true
fundamentals, uh earnings growth and the
earnings outlook for 2026?
Yeah, this time of year we try not to
read too much into the price action
given volumes being so very light and we
do know that there tends to be some kind
of window dressing dressing and
positioning chases into year end. And
what's really fascinating is that we saw
the rotation in leadership start a
little early this year. Typically, we
see leadership rotations where you have
your classic dogs of the Dow or the last
shall be first trade that kicks off in
January as people start to rebalance
portfolios in a new tax year. But it
seemed to start in November this year
where we saw value, for example,
outperform growth by 5% since November
1st. So maybe people are trying to get a
little bit ahead of that, but at the end
of the day, we try not to read too much
into very endofear kind of price action
simply because it doesn't reflect uh
anything more than likely just
positioning chasing. Cameron, when it
comes to the commodity space, if you
look at what happened this year across
the entire spectrum, gold, silver,
platinum, copper, do you look at that
and you think you have to maintain part
of this into 2026, or do you think
individuals should make sure that
commodities are part of their portfolio?
>> Yeah, we see commodities as a way to
have an inflation hedge within
portfolios and they work really well
when they work well and they don't work
so well a good portion of the time. So
certainly we've been in an environment
where that has been a very powerful
uptrend for a lot of these commodities.
I think the question is how much can it
continue? Jeff Degraphth uh of
Renaissance Macro put out a great piece
effectively saying hey when you've
doubled your return in less than 2 years
the probability of you doing it again is
extraordinarily low. So it gets back to
this kind of overall notion of
respecting uptrends and not ignoring
risks. Gold is in a very powerful
uptrend. We've been calling it the Chuck
Norris of commodities. Nothing seems to
be able to keep it down. It doesn't even
touch its 50-day moving average. But if
you look at longerterm charts, it is
extraordinarily overbought. So it
wouldn't be surprising to see some kind
of consolidation. But we do know that
there still remains very powerful
drivers of for example central bank
buying of gold. But also appreciate it
has become somewhat memeified. Meaning
that it has become effectively a
momentum stock. You're seeing a lot of
trading in retail investors as well as
investors overseas. So, it could get a
little bit over its skis and
consolidate. Uh, but the uptrend is
still very much there. Gold is now a
meme. Cameron, thank you for that.
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth will
be sticking with us. Let's get you an
update now on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with Yahira. Hey yra.
>> Hi, Emry. [music]
A private jet carrying Libya's military
chief of staff crashed [music] in
central Turkey, killing him and seven
others. The plane reported an electrical
malfunction after takeoff and requested
an emergency landing, but disappeared
from radar during its descent and
[music] contact could not be
reestablished. According to the Turkish
government, Libya declared 3 days of
morning and said [music] it would
dispatch a delegation to Ankora to
coordinate with Turkish authorities who
have opened an investigation [music]
into the incident. Meanwhile, the Trump
administration imposed visa sanctions
[music] on former EU Commissioner Terry
Breton and four other people for trying
to make [music] American tech companies
police political speech on their
platforms. The State Department targeted
activists [music]
and nonprofits focus on digital hate
speech and countering extremism.
And shares of Nike are rising 2%. Filing
show Apple CEO Tim Cook, who is also a
Nike board member, has bought nearly $3
million of shares of the sporting goods
maker. Nike, [music] which plunged last
week on disappointing earnings, is down
about 24% this year. That's great
[music] memory. Thanks so much, Hire,
for bringing us that story. I did not
know that Tim Cook was such a a Nike
wearer. Apparently wearing one of a kind
Nikes around the world all the time.
>> Well, he's been a longtime board member
of the company. I guess that's how he
expresses his personality. You know how
tech guys in the industry like to wear
kind of fun socks, crazy socks. Yeah,
they wear everything else uniforms.
>> Yes. But they can express their
personality, their, you know, whims uh
through their socks and through their
[music] footwear. It's sneakers or
trainers for Tim Cook. It's like how
Jonathan Pharaoh, his only expression is
a tie. This is interesting. I'm I'm now
going through [music] and seeing what
kind of style Tim Cook has just so like
solely based on what sneakers he
>> ones and custom stitched vomero
he favors.
>> All right, I'm going to check them out.
No hocus for him. Up next, calling for
lower rates.
>> The Federal Reserve is too tight. I
think it's our job to balance prices in
the labor market and I think that we are
not doing a great job. If we don't
adjust policy down, then I think that we
do run risks of rising recess of rising
recessions. Next up, Cameron Dawson
still with us. We're going to get into
what policy potentials could be on the
horizon for 2026 that might impact
financial markets. [music] Thanks for
joining us this morning and merry
Christmas.
[music]
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Equities muted this
morning as we head into the opening
[music] trade. Is going to be a
shortened trading day. We should know
cuz it is Christmas Eve and you do have
red [music] and green on the screen. All
the action once again in the commodity
space. Gold is at one point it passed
$4500
an ounce. Silver also up 1.3% but as
Scarlet and I have been saying, this is
so small compared to what we've seen for
the entire year. Silver was up 150%.
under surveillance this morning [music]
calling for lower rates.
>> The Federal Reserve is too tight. I
think it's our job to balance prices in
the labor market and I think that we are
not doing a great job. If we don't
adjust policy down, then I think that
[music] we do run risks of rising recess
of rising recessions. The unemployment
rate has has poked up potentially above
where people thought it was going to go.
And so we've had data that should push
people into a dovish direction.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
ramping up pressure on the Fed, saying,
quote, "I want my new Fed chairman to
lower interest rates if the market is
doing well." Bloomberg's Jonathan Tamari
joins us now. Jonathan, just this is a
huge question mark for financial markets
going into 2026. Who will be the
president's choice for Fed chair? Give
us a sense of where we are in the
process.
>> Yeah, I mean, well, we thought at one
point that we would already have an
announcement by this time. This was the
the time frame right now that the
president the administration had
initially previewed for an announcement.
Obviously, that's been pushed back. The
president has kind of narrowed things
down. We think Kevin Hassid is the name
that I think a lot of people think is
going to be his pick, his economic
adviser, but he's obviously not the the
only person. You can see on screen some
of the other folks, Kevin Worsh,
Christopher Waller, who are also seen to
be in the mix. I think what the key
though is that whoever it is is going to
have to be somebody who's loyal to the
president and is willing to make moves
that support the president's agenda.
It's just another way where the
president is treating the federal
government, the whole federal government
is something that he directs and ending
the independence of places or hoping to
end the independence of places like the
Fed, the Department of Justice that have
typically operated separate from the
president's political agenda.
>> Jonathan, I also want to get your take
on uh what we learned last night. a
federal judge saying the White House can
move ahead with its plan to impose a
$100,000 fee on new H1B visa
applications. We know this is something
that the tech industry has been pushing
back against because they certainly rely
on this type of visa to uh hire skilled
and educated foreign workers for very
specialized roles. Is this something
that um they're going to let go of or is
there still a lot of uh perhaps
campaigning behind the scenes for
exceptions to this?
Yeah, I mean I think there is still
going to be campaigning against this.
It's obviously a big win for the
president and his his push to really
curtail immigration, legal immigration
and illegal immigration both. But the US
Chamber of Commerce still has a chance
to appeal this. There are still lawsuits
coming from some state attorneys general
who say that this is going to affect uh
services for health care, for education.
So this thing, this fight is not over
yet, but it's certainly a significant
win for the president for now and going
to be a significant burden on these tech
companies. You're going to see these
H-1B visas go from a few thousand a
piece to $100,000 a piece and we'll see
if they're willing to pay that to keep
bringing in uh you know highskilled
workers from overseas.
>> Huge debate for the Republican party
ahead of the midterm elections. Jonathan
Tamari, thank you so much for joining us
this morning. Merry Christmas to you and
your family. Scarlet, I do remember
though on the campaign trail the
president talked about if you are
graduating from a college, you should be
given with your diploma a green card to
stay in the United States. and he seems
to be pushing being pushed and pulled in
different directions based on where the
Republican party is moving on this
issue.
>> Yeah, that's a good point. But I suppose
he could say he is consistent with that
idea. He just wants companies to pay up
for that privilege. Right. He's not
saying you can't do it. He's saying pay
$100,000 before we get started.
>> True. All right. Cameron Dawson of New
Edge Wealth is still with us. Cameron,
let's look at what some of the policy
uncertainty may bring for next year. I
remember this year everything was about
tariffs. We saw the lows of the
financial markets after liberation day
in April. When it comes to next year,
what are the biggest risks when it comes
from the uncertainty out of the Trump
administration?
>> I think it's a big question of what we
get out of the Fed and how much
influence the Trump administration is
going to be able to have on the Fed. I
think that 2026 is going to the be the
year of the debate or the quest for
neutral where you've heard from folks
like Myron as well as Bessant talking
about that they think the neutral rate
should be far lower than it is today.
But you're also hearing from folks like
Pal saying that we are effectively at
neutral. And the interesting paradox of
all of this is that they could both be
right. It just depends on where you're
looking. If you're arguing that we are
already at neutral and policy is already
kind of easy enough, you would look at
financial conditions being at the
easiest levels that we've had since
2022. You look at this last third
quarter GDP print that nominal GDP came
in at 8.2%. That doesn't seem like an
economy that's gasping for rate cuts.
But if you argue that neutral is
actually far lower than it is today,
you'd look at the unemployment rate
ticking up. You look at the conference
board labor market differential looking
absolutely ugly yesterday. So maybe the
lesson is that neutral is in the eye of
the beholder. But all of this does is
creates a a a cloud of uncertainty about
what the Fed's next move is going to be.
>> Well, when it comes to the eye of the
beholder being the president of the
United States, we are definitely far
from neutral where he wants to see
interest rates. How are you thinking
about the Fed race for the chairmanship,
especially given the fact that the
president has really taken his time? I
was told in April by the Treasury
Secretary we'd have a decision by the
early fall. Yeah, I think it's a
question of how do you get somebody in
that Fed chair seat that is also going
to be able to have influence over the
other members of the Fed? Meaning that
it's not just one person's vote that
counts. It's the entire board's vote
that counts. And so the question is, can
you thread that needle? Can you put
somebody into the Fed that will argue
and push for much lower rates and also
get the rest of the voting members to be
able to coalesce behind you? And so it
really is that question of finding that
right personality. Maybe it's somebody
who needs to be an insider, having had
experience at the Fed versus an
outsider. That could be one of the
reasons why we've seen this bit of
delay. But it really is a matter of
being able to have somebody that will
one support the policies that you want,
but two get others to do it as well. How
do you get the bond market on your side?
Because there were some concerns about
Kevin Hasset that he would struggle to
deliver all the rate cuts Trump wants.
Uh because the bond market was not
convinced that he was sufficiently
independent. And we know the president
has made clear he wants lower rates when
the economy when the market when the
data shows the economy is doing well.
that puts whoever's going to be fed
share in a difficult position to deliver
that and also maintain credibility.
>> Yeah, I think it was the Rolling Stones
that you may not always get what you
want, but you get what you need. You
might want lower rates and a strong
economy, but that's typically not how it
works. Meaning that if you go back to
that 2024 period where the Fed delivered
100 basis points of rate cuts and you
saw the long end of the Treasury curve
go up by 100 basis points, that was
because you were seeing economic
surprises shoot up meaningfully and you
were seeing revisions higher to GDP. All
of this is a lesson in the fact that the
10-year Treasury yield and longer end
rates will be sensitive to things like
economic surprises. So if you are in an
environment where the economy is humming
along and you are seeing upside
surprises to growth and you are cutting
interest rates, it's very likely that
you will see the back end of the curve
move higher. So it might be that you
want both of those things, but they
typically don't happen at the same time
unless we see them pursue some kind of
policy that looks like yield curve
control or quantitative easing.
>> Right? So, to that end, what other
policies might you expect or might you
anticipate the White House to take in
order to keep long-term rates lower?
>> Well, we think that you could see a
rebrand of quantitative easing into
something that looks like quantitative
freedom uh in order to be able to
justify going down the path of pushing
long-term rates lower because we do know
that they want the long end of the yield
curve and really everybody wants the
long end of the yield curve to be lower
in order to support the housing market.
The housing market continues to be in
the doldrums. It hasn't had the same
kind of broad impact on the overall
economy as it has in has had in prior
cycles because of labor shortages. You
actually still have record people
employed in the housing related
construction sector at this cycle, which
just means that even though housing has
been so weak, it hasn't metastasized to
the rest of the economy. So I think the
big question is what can they do to get
those cyclical sectors that are
sensitive to long long end yields to to
to move higher in 2026
and does that include potentially
controlling the long end of the yield
curve?
>> Cameron, what do you make of the
administration talking about potentially
$2,000 tariff dividend checks going out
to Americans? Will this goose inflation?
>> Yeah. Well, we certainly learned that
story back in 2020 and 2021 with
stimulus checks. I think the important
caveat to that is one of the reasons why
those checks were so very inflationary
is because not only were you giving
people money to spend, you were also
removing the ability to be able to spend
on other things. Meaning because you had
so many supply chain disruptions and
shutdowns related to CO, all of that
created was this sort of inflationary
boom. But given the fact that you're
still in an environment, as I mentioned
earlier, with very easy financial
conditions, you already are running 6
and a.5% deficit to GDP. All of that
suggests that easy monetary policy,
already easy fiscal policy, and then
super juiced super easy fiscal policy.
Any kind of econ 101 textbook would
suggest that that would be inflationary
and to suggest that maybe the bond
market who still has a very sanguin view
of longerterm inflation 5year 5-year
forward break evens are just at 2.44%
maybe that kind of optimism about
inflation is misguided.
>> Cameron, thanks so much for joining us
this Christmas Eve morning. Merry
Christmas to you and your family.
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth. You
know, Scarlet, as she's talking, I'm
thinking but it's an election year.
>> That's right. That's where my head was
going as well. So policy, even if they
don't do it, just floating the idea gets
that idea out there.
>> Although it's very circular. Put tariffs
[music] up 2025, take that money, say
it's being used to the deficit, but then
dole it out as checks.
>> Yeah. Feels like it's the same kind of
money just circ.
>> Well, you know, for those who aren't on
top of every news point, it might work.
>> All right. Coming up, Yahra with your
morning movers. Nike shares getting a
boost from Apple's Tim Cook. You're
watching Bloomberg [music] Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance and Merry Christmas. I'm
Ann alongside Scarlet Food today.
[music] Jonathan is still on paternity
leave and Lisa is off for the week. Lisa
will be back with you next week. She'll
be guiding you into 2026 and the gang is
back together [music] in the new year.
Where we are this morning is equity
futures pulling back just ever so
slightly. [music] Come on, there's no
drama. It's unchanged. This comes after
the S&P 500 hit a 38 record high for
2025 yesterday. [music]
Gold, silver, all trending higher
alongside the entire commodity complex
as [music] well. When you look at other
things like copper especially and
platinum as well and a lot of people are
saying this is going to continue into
next year. [music] Idioscratic issues.
Copper maybe it's tariffs, maybe it's
supply issue. gold. Central banks are
buying silver, poor man's gold. Maybe
it's a place [music] for store value and
it's a place for the physical economy.
Lots of different stories, but the
commodity complex is definitely trending
higher. And then to Scarlet's point, she
said this is the currency we need to be
talking about this morning. The wand,
South Korea's wand [music] strengthened
after the authorities there said excess
excessive weakness in the currency isn't
desirable. So, some verbal intervention,
some verbal intervention. And uh they're
also saying that the markets will soon
see the government's strong
determination. And I point this out
because this is a [music] big move in
the currency market. A 2% move uh where
the dollar is gaining versus uh the one
or excuse me, the dollar is falling and
there's that line down versus the Korean
Juan. Uh and not that the Korean Juan is
a huge weight in the Bloomberg dollar
index, but it does kind of matter. And
uh this is partly why you're seeing some
weakness in the US dollar. On the whole
though, the moves against the other
currencies are pretty negligible,
[music]
>> right? It's Christmas Eve, low volume,
two hours away from the cash open.
Here's your morning movers with Yahira.
Hey, Yah.
>> Hi, Ann Marie. We start with some M&A
news with Davac soaring 38% [music]
in the pre-market after French drug
maker Seni agreed to buy the company in
a more than $2 billion deal to expand
[music] its vaccine portfolio. But the
most fascinating part about this deal
was the timing because the statement
came just minutes after US regulators
delivered a blow to Seni by surprisingly
rejecting its treatment for [music] MS.
Meanwhile, Nike shares getting a boost
on a vote of confidence from Apple CEO
Tim Cook. Shares are up 2% because not
only is he buying their shoes, as you
guys have been talking about all
morning, he's also buying Nike stock. He
bought nearly $3 million worth of shares
after the stock plummeted due [music] to
those disappointing earnings uh last
week. But the big question is whether
2026 [music] will finally be the
turnaround year for Nike. And Apple CEO
Tim Cook seems to think [music] so. And
he is also on the board. I forgot to
mention that. And we end on new iPad.
This is an a company that provides
automation software [music] to allow
workers to do other creative tasks. as
well. It's getting a boost up 8% on news
that it's joining the [music] S&P Midcap
400, which of course triggers automatic
buying from index uh index [music]
tracking funds. But it's another boost
for a stock riding optimism that it will
emerge as a winner in the AI boom with
shares already up nearly 25% year
[music] to date. Amry, thanks so much.
Yahara. On our radar this morning, a
federal judge upholding President
[music] Trump's $100,000 fee on H-1B
visa applications. The ruling boosting
the administration's campaign to push
demand for US workers. But Scarlet, I
have to say, I think this debate and the
story is going to continue into next
year. Chamber of Commerce pretty swiftly
came out and said they're disappointed
with the court's decision.
>> Right. And they can always appeal the
ruling and of course the tech companies
will continue to lobby, I think, in the
background for some kind of give on
this.
>> Absolutely. When it comes to Amazon,
Meta, Tesla, these kind of companies are
going to be in the behind the scenes
probably talking to the White House
about potentially how much cost this is
going to be for their bottom line
because they do need some of these
workers. All right, the dollar heading
for its worst annual performance in 8
years, down about 8% in 2025. I mean,
obviously, look where gold is. You can
see where the dollar's going. Traders
preparing for more downside ahead with
expectations of rate cuts weighing on
the greenback. and influencer and WWE
wrestler Logan Paul is set to sell the
most expensive Pokemon trading card at
auction.
>> Let's be honest, um the Pokemon market
is as hot as it's ever been right now.
And those people who thought I was an
idiot, I think I'm the one laughing in
their face now cuz Pokemon has delivered
higher returns than the stock market in
the past 20 years.
>> All right. Well, he got me cuz I did
literally just laugh out loud. Paul
bought the card for over $5 million in
2021 with the collectible now estimated
to sell between 7 million and $12
million when it's auctioned on January
12th. Scarlet, I had no idea Pokémon was
still a thing except for my nephews, but
they're 9, seven, and four. Well, you
know, Logan Paul and people from his age
group were probably collecting Pokemon
cards when Millennials. Yes, that's
right. And now there's an opportunity to
trade and there's some liquidity in this
market. And you know, we know the
financialization of of everything is
taking place. So, this just extends to
your trading cards.
>> Do you think I can get money for those
Beanie Babies I was buying?
>> Do they still have tags on them?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Well, then yes, I think so.
>> I have boxes of them. All right. There
you go. Call. Give me a call. Tomorrow.
>> Nice discovery.
>> And tomorrow morning, kids around the
world will be opening millions of toys,
including Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels.
David Rubenstein sat down with the CEO
of the company behind those iconic
brands.
Now, the toy world is not a world that I
know that well. Um, I do have some young
grandchildren and get them some toys
from time to time, but I don't really
pay attention to where the toys are
manufactured. My assumption is that most
toys in the United States are actually
manufactured overseas and maybe a large
number of those in China. Is that a fair
assumption? That's correct. The industry
average is about 80 to 85% of toys being
made in China. For Mattel, [snorts]
we've been reducing and rebalancing our
manufacturing footprint so that no one
country by the end of 27 will represent
more than 25% of our global
manufacturing. China represent to for us
today around 35% of our global
manufacturing relative to industry
average of 80 to 85%. But this journey
was not about China. It was about
balancing and diversifying our
manufacturing footprint so that we're
not dependent on any one country.
>> As we talked today, President Trump is
shortly going to be meet with meeting
with President Xi Ping presumably to
deal with tariffs and other things. But
to date, the tariffs that have been
imposed on China. Has that adversely
affected toy companies and particularly
in Mattel?
>> Well, at the start of the year, the
issue was about cost impact of tariff on
product. Then the question became what
about consumer reaction to price
increase in response to tariff. Now what
we're seeing is that we companies have
mitigated for the cost impact. Consumer
demand for toys is growing has been
growing every quarter in the US and
overseas. What we have seen is that
retailers have postponed their decision
in making orders to the very back end of
the year. But seeing that there is
demand, there is consumer demand. Cons
people are buying product at retailers,
we expect to see a good holiday season
and a strong growth quarter for Mattel.
>> Now about 50% of tariffs that have been
imposed by the federal government have
not been passed along to customers.
They're being absorbed by the people
that are paying the tariffs. Are you
absorbing a large part of the tariffs or
are you passing along some of it?
>> Well, we have several mitigating actions
that we're taking. Much of it is about
diversifying our manufacturing footprint
and and using the fact that we are
making product in seven different
countries. So you can optimize and
modulate and create a flexible model
that respond to tariff and shifting
market conditions and this is very much
part of our journey to create a flexible
supply chain that is responsive. As the
tariffs have now come in and some extent
there might be increase it might be
decrease but how has that changed your
relationship with retailers? Are they
absorbing the tariffs or are you
absorbing the tariffs or is it split?
>> We work very closely with our retail
partners. We are fundamentally a
business-to- business company. We sell
to the retailers, they sell to the
consumers, but together we are trying to
create a holistic experience that drives
demand and we work with them to help
them sell product. We spend significant
uh resources on demand creation.
We sell product as a company in 500,000
stores globally. This is just a
brickandmortar business, not including
online retail and e-commerce. So,
understanding the retail landscape and
working in close collaboration with our
retail partners is core competence to
what we do and we do that really well.
>> So, as people are getting ready to buy
toys for Christmas season, uh what do
you want them to know the most about
what they should be buying in the toy
world? You know, we are so proud of what
we do. Every Christmas, we create
product that we believe stands out in a
very crowded aisle, the toy aisle. And
our job is to continue to do things that
will excite and delight fans and partner
with our retailers to create an offering
that will be very compelling. Of course,
it's always about Barbie, Hot Wheels,
American Girl, Fisher Price, Uno,
Monster High, Endless uh collection
across multiple price points. You can
buy a Hot Wheels diecast car for $1.25
or you can buy a collector set that we
did together with Daniel Arsham, a
famous artist for $700 on Mattel
Creation. And u when you're dealing with
Christmas, you have to figure out do you
get new toys designed so that that's
something different or you get old
reliable toys that you know the parent
is going to say yes this kid will like
it because it's been around for a while.
It's it's a combination of both and it's
art and science. There's no playbook and
there's no predictable necess you know p
pattern that you try to follow. In many
ways you invent and you create product
and create the demand. But what we are
seeing in a world of unlimited shelf
space and ubiquitous distribution, the
big brands win. The big brands that have
the awareness and built-in fan base
always have the advantage.
>> That was David Rubenstein with the
Mattel CEO. Let's get you an update on
other stories we're watching this
morning. Yah's back with your Bloomberg
brief. Hey, Yah.
>> Hi Anmarie. Gold is continuing to rally
into year end. The precious metal
trading [music] above $4,500 an ounce
for the first time ever earlier. Gold is
up more than 70% [music]
this year and silver has risen by nearly
150%. They are on track for their best
annual performance [music] since 1979.
Meanwhile, in sports, Brooks Kepka is
the first player to defect from Saudi
backed live golf. The five-time [music]
major champion is leaving to spend more
time with his family. The PGA suspends
players who take part in the live tour.
Non-members [music] are banned for a
year from the last date from the date of
their last live outing. And Service Now
announcing it will buy cyber security
startup Armis for $7.75 [music]
billion. It will be the company's
largest acquisition to date. Service Now
is looking to use Armis' technology to
help clients fend [music] off cyber
attacks. That's your brief rate.
>> Thanks so much, Yhira. Up next,
resetting [music] global trade.
President Trump, the administration has
essentially reset the global trading
order uh to move from uh you know total
liberal trade into the United States
without any cost to uh a new fair and
balanced approach. It would be terrible
if the Supreme Court overturned the
case.
>> Joyce Adatutu Vincent Elkins joins us
next. You're watching [music] Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance and merry Christmas if you
are joining us this [music] morning.
Equity markets are pointing to
potentially I don't know we're muted but
we're at an all-time high. So all good
news
>> unchanged.
>> Unchanged. Yeah. And uh basically we're
getting that Santa Claus rally that
everyone was hoping for. Very low
volumes today. [music] Gold and silver
as we've been saying all morning as
we've been saying all week. They
continue to shine. Uh gold is up 50% uh
70% on the year and silver 150%. [music]
Under surveillance this morning.
Something to be mindful for next year.
Resetting global trade.
President Trump, the administration has
essentially reset the global trading
order uh to move from uh you know total
liberal trade into the United States
without any cost to uh a new fair and
balanced approach. It would be terrible
if the Supreme Court overturned the case
because we have built a new global
trading order on the back of the of
these tariffs. We will do whatever we
need to do to make sure that we can
maintain [music] the tariffs we need.
>> Here's the latest. Supreme Court
weighing a legal challenge to President
Trump's tariffs. If scrapped, the
government could owe the bulk of the
$165 billion from collected custom
duties. Joyce Attitutu of Vincent and
Elkins, writing, quote, "Refunding the
tariffs won't be as simple as pressing a
button. Custom and border protection
faces a massive administrative lift
involving protests, liquidation issues,
and multiple court processes." Joyce
joins us now. Joyce, before we get into
how much of a mess that might be, and
that's actually one of the reasons why
the administration is telling the
Supreme Court they cannot undo AIPA.
What do you think the court will
ultimately decide?
>> It is interesting um and a good
question. Thank you guys for having me
here. It's a pleasure to be here. I
think ultimately the court is going to
come down on the side of the tariffs are
not constitutional under IPA. The major
question in the case is whether the
international emergency powers act
allows the president to under the
authority to regulate imports to impose
this tariff. And it has historically
been a power that is left to Congress.
And frankly, I think the Supreme Court
is going to agree that the Trump
administration took this one step too
far when it determined that regulate
imports means that you can impose
tariffs broadly across the globe.
>> What if the Supreme Court does end up
saying AIPA was illegal? When it comes
to the refunds, what's the first start
of that process?
So unfortunately there's not really a
set way to refund these tariffs given
how big the amount of money is. So the
first step I think is going to be the
court making the decision to say these
are unconstitutional and then it's going
to be a question of how the court of
international trade and CBP ultimately
decide to do the refund process. Right
now, the presently existing structure
would be either you file a what's
basically a correction to your entry
summary if your tariff entries haven't
liquidated. That's basically the process
for um trueing up how much you paid on
the date of entry. Or you would have to
if your entry has liquidated, go ahead
and file a protest and protest that
liquidation saying we paid too much and
now we expect a refund back. And that's
quite an administrative burden.
>> What happened to the payments that
companies had made for the tariffs? I
mean, I know that they ended up at the
Treasury, but are they sitting somewhere
specifically at the Treasury where it's
um accessible?
>> I highly doubt it. How this is usually
run is those funds are are paid. They go
into the big revenue pot and they're
used for other things. And this country
has to run on some level of revenue. And
this is a lot of revenue. There's a lot
going on. So it's not like dollar for
dollar this is sitting in a in an
account waiting for someone to refund it
and push a button.
>> In terms of companies that have filed
suit and are looking for refunds, should
the Supreme Court rule against the White
House? what are the details that they
need to be on top of? What are going to
be the key things that a decision will
revolve around?
>> So, I think ultimately if this goes all
the way through the process of issuing
refunds to everyone, I think
documentation is going to be critical.
Uh, one of the major questions is going
to be what rate did you pay on date of
entry and was that the correct rate?
This has been a very volatile tariff
strategy. There's been a lot of changes
in the tariff landscape and on one day
you may have been subject to a 10%
tariff and the next day a 50% tariff and
the day after that subject to a tariff
based on a trade agreement between the
between the two countries. So the
question is going to be how well have
you documented all of your payments and
all of the information so that when you
go through that protest process you are
able to confidently say I'm entitled to
this refund and here's why.
>> Okay so let's call it tariff yo-yo. If
we do have the Supreme Court striking
down AIPA and the administration uses
other avenues, 232s, 301's, other
sections to enact those tariffs, if you
are a company, do you go get refunds for
the AIPA or do you just wait it out
because you're going to be paying
tariffs just under a different legal
avenue in the months to come.
So there are some companies that are
really really pushing for instead of a
refund a credit against future tariffs
which is an interesting and
sophisticated approach. I think for some
that works incredibly well to say hey
you don't have to refund this. We
recognize dollar for dollar these
dollars may not exist but give us a
credit. For other companies where they
don't import as often, those dollars
mean a lot more right now and that's
very difficult to just sit and wait for
a potential future import that may never
come. So I think uh it is possible that
some may say I prefer the credit, but
others may really want to go through
that process and really seek to get the
refund that they're entitled to.
>> Absolutely fascinating. It's going to
keep us all busy in 2026. Joyce, thank
you so much for joining us. A merry
Christmas to you and your family. Joyce
added a tutu of Vincent and Elkins.
Bloomberg did a deep dive on the
president's tariffs and when he rolled
them out in April, economists braced for
the worst. Since then, a lot has
happened, but the sky has yet to fall.
Were the exports experts wrong or is it
too early to tell? Take a look.
Credit where credit's due. President
Trump made a big bet that the US had a
[music] magnetic appeal and that would
enable him to get a better deal [music]
from US trade partners and companies
that want to do business in the United
States. On the evidence of the last few
months, that bet is playing out pretty
nicely.
Economists don't agree on much. One
thing they do agree on is that free
trade is good and that [music] tariffs
are bad. For a moment, Trump escalated
US tariffs on China all the way to 125%.
If you plugged the US tariffs [music]
into a model of the global economy, what
it said was that there was going to be a
really significant drag on growth and
there was also going to be a significant
upward impulse to [music] prices. But
when we look at what's happened to
inflation over the summer, it's not come
down, but it's [music] not come up
either. Why is that? It's because US
importers and foreign exporters [music]
saw the Trump tariffs coming and they
rushed to frontload shipping to the
United States [music] before the tariffs
could come into force. One thing that's
happened is that we've gone from a
[music] lot of unexpected bad news
concentrated on a single day to a series
of country bycountry deals. [music]
They're something of a Swiss cheese of
exemptions and carveouts. The trade war
is a drag, but it's not the only thing
which [music] is happening. We've got
tax cuts with Trump's one big beautiful
bill. And we've got a bonfire of
regulations which is [music] stoking the
animal spirits of US businesses. We've
also got the artificial [music]
intelligence boom and a huge amount of
investment going into data centers.
Tariffs are having an effect. [music]
China's exports to the United States are
way down relative to the historical
trend.
So, who pays for the cost of tariffs?
Despite his well-known love of gold, the
president is not an alchemist. He can't
make something from nothing. That money
has [music] to come from somewhere. All
of the evidence so far suggests that in
the end, the bulk of it is going to come
from US businesses and US households.
>> Going to be a huge story in 2026 as it
was in 2025. Maybe we are past peak
uncertainty, but when it comes to
potentially these refunds, that is going
to be a headache to say the least for
corporate America. Also for corporate
America this morning, Intel maybe a
headache as well for the US government
that has a stake in this company. There
is a report from Reuters that Intel
right now or Nvidia rather is halting a
test to use Intel's production process
to make advanced chips. Basically
meaning they still need to use the chip
manufacturers in Taiwan.
>> Right. And of course, this was kind of
one of the things that Intel was
counting on, that shareholders of Intel
were certainly counting on to make the
company more relevant. And it's not just
Nvidia either. Uh Broadcom as well was
also reportedly man testing whether it
would make its chips using this 18A
production process. We don't have any
word on whether Broadcom is going
through with that or not, but Reuters
saying that Nvidia has stepped away from
those plans. Um this is not great news
for the stock of uh Intel.
>> Not great news for the stock of Intel.
Not great news for this administration,
which took an equity stake in Intel,
really viewed this as a makeorb breakak
moment. The Treasury Secretary this week
was on the All-In podcast talking about
the fact that 97% of our chips are
manufactured in Taiwan, and they can't
have that sort of dependency and
reliability. The issue is when you have
customers like Nvidia saying, "Well,
actually, we don't want to use your
processing."
>> Well, and it's not to say that it won't
happen in the future, but perhaps right
now is not the time because, uh, it was
a quick turnaround to get from we're
testing it out until we're definitely
doing it. All right, more on this story
coming up next. Plus, Bob Elliot [music]
of Unlimited Fund, Stephanie Roth of
Wolf Research, and Anisha Sherman of
Bernstein. [music]
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance
on this Christmas Eve. Thank you for
spending your holiday with us if you're
up and watching.
[music]
>> [music]
>> The global backdrop is healthy.
>> There are winners and losers that people
are picking right now.
>> Underneath the surface, there is both
tech and non- tech parts of the market
that is driving that charge higher.
>> As an investor, you need to be on your
toes and be ready for surprises.
>> There's definitely some dry powder
coming for next year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Good morning and merry Christmas to you
and your loved ones. I'm Amry Horder
alongside Scarlet Food this morning.
Jonathan Pharaoh is still on paternity
leave and Lisa Abramowitz is off this
[music] week for the holiday. We do want
to get to some breaking news. This is
coming from Reuters, but it's definitely
moving the share price of Intel this
morning. Intel [music] shares now
unchanged. They were down though as much
as 4% at one point. This comes to the
fact that there is a report that Nvidia
has halted a test to use Intel's
production process to [music] make
advanced chips. The issue why this is so
important, Scarlet, is because everyone
was viewing this as really a makeorb
breakak [music] moment for Intel, right?
Absolutely. Intel had this technology
that no one really else had. And we know
that Intel and the US government, which
is a shareholder in Intel, really want
to reclaim American leadership in chipm.
And so this push to make advanced chips
inside the US is an attempt to [music]
really challenge TSMC as the pre-minent
chipmaker of the world. It's not just
Nvidia. Broadcom reportedly also uh
testing whether it would use this
[music] production process that Intel
has uh come up with. We don't know
whether Broadcom is moving forward. And
for Nvidia, I guess the question is, is
this merely a pause or is this an actual
decision to move away [music] from
Intel? Yeah, we're going to have to wait
for Jensen Wong to weigh in on this part
of the story. What I find interesting
about this is this is the
administration's entire approach to
taking equity stakes. What really is
state capitalism? They are picking
winners and losers and they wanted to
pick Intel as a winner. [music] They
want to make Intel as a winner, but I
suppose they could argue that the
previous administration had already done
that through the chips act uh by giving
Intel these big grants. So, they're kind
of following through on what had already
begun. But what's going to happen?
Because the Treasury Secretary this week
spoke to the All-In podcast. And when he
was asked about this idea of state
capitalism, he was saying how we're in
an economic war and the US needs to make
sure they're going after critical
industries. Well, I mean, in many ways,
the US is doing what other countries
have done, creating national champions.
And Intel [clears throat]
unfortunately has been behind the curve
when it comes to these advanced chips
and really missed the boat on a lot of
it and it's making up for some lost time
and I don't know how much time you can
make up when um the chipmaker the
company the management has not been
focused on those advanced chips. Let's
just show you what's happening across
markets right now. Uh financial markets
again the day before Christmas you're
not going to see a whole lot of movement
and there you have it. S&P futures
little changed at the moment. Of course,
this comes after the S&P 500 closed at a
record high yesterday. And in fact,
[music] the MSEI allcountry world index
also at a record high as well. So, uh
big big gains for equities, not just in
the US this year. Not much movement in
the rate space. Uh the 10-year yield
unchanged at 4.16%.
But the big moves really are in
commodities. The metals, gold, silver,
copper, platinum, what have you, they're
all climbing. [music] And in the case of
gold and silver, record highs for these
precious metals, but it's not just the
precious metal aspect that's attracting
a lot of investors, the industrial
metals and silver plays into that,
copper as well, an uh really getting a
lot of attention here because of the
[music] buildout of the AI
infrastructure as well as the buildout
of the green energy world outside the
US. Yeah, it's a great point. Outside
the US, this massive buildup. Coming on
the program, Bob Elliot of Unlimited
Funds says investors bet on a strong
finish. Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research
as we parse through fresh labor data and
Anisha Sherman of Bernsteeen as
retailers brace for Christmas.
We begin this hour with futures on hold
looking for a fifth straight of gains.
Bob Elliot of Limited Fund says stock
and bond markets are sure of a strong
growth, limited risk and low volatility.
Bob joins us now. Bob, thank you so much
for joining us today. So, when it comes
to what you're seeing for 2026, how does
the setup, how does the way we're ending
2025 position us for your anticipated uh
outlook for 2026?
>> Well, I think the US economy in
particular faces a real fork in the road
as we enter 2026. the core of the
economy has slowed down considerably in
the second half of the year and
particularly uh since September and
without a significant amount of federal
government or Fed intervention, it's
probably going to be much weaker than
what's currently priced into things like
stocks. At the same time, essentially
the only way for the for the Fed and the
Treasury to and the federal government
to stimulate the economy is through this
sort of persistent debasement approach.
And so, uh, the fork of the road is does
the administration and does the Fed
accept weak growth or continued
relatively significant debasement that
we're seeing across a variety of
different areas like metals and the
dollar.
>> Right. So talk a little bit about that
debasement because it was a big thing
earlier this year and it's kind of
fallen off a little bit and part of that
might be because crypto is not taking
part in it. When you see gold prices and
silver prices rally but crypto is not
along for the ride, it feels like it
becomes something else. How has the
debasement trade changed from a few
months ago to what it is now and what
you see it being in 2026?
Well, I think in a lot of ways earlier
in the year, people got confused about
what was a shift to an easier Fed
policy, a pivot to focus primarily on
labor markets, which lifted all
financial assets, every financial asset
under the sun in the third quarter
basically was up. That's very different
from a pure debasement trade, which is
that um you have a situation where the
administration and the Fed need to ease
materially even to get moderately good
growth. And so that's why we've seen a
real shift here away from essentially
the risky riskiest asset uh of the major
assets which is in Bitcoin and the
variety of crypto areas. And we've seen
a shift towards sort of more pure
debasement plays like gold and silver to
some extent. And and the reality is they
may call Bitcoin digital gold but it is
not gold and it's once again showing
that uh through the end of the year. You
know, uh, the president has been saying
that he wants the good news is good news
dynamic back in markets. When the
economy is doing well, he wants the Fed
to lower rates. He doesn't quite get on
board with the whole idea that good news
is bad news. That uh when there's good
economic data, people get worried about
inflationary impulses and they worry
about potential rate hikes sending stock
prices lower. What you're saying though
is that the core of the US economy is
weak and decelerating. And if that leads
to a rate cut, that's not exactly what
the president has in mind. Can he get
both what he wants and lower rates?
Well, it's possible that he gets lower
rates uh and that that is supportive to
the economy or more expansionary fiscal
policy which is supportive to the
economy. There's just a trade-off here,
which is pursuing those policies will be
significantly dollar negative uh as well
as uh you know bullish for things like
gold and silver. Like we've gotten
stocks are are up you know in the in the
mid- teens this year and that's a pretty
good year all things considered. But
remember how much debasement it has
taken to get to that point, right?
Gold's up 70%, silver's up 150% as
you've been talking about. Think about
how extreme those moves are in those
assets just to get what is a bit better
than average outcome in the equity
market and a real economy that looks
extremely soft at this point ending the
year.
>> So let's talk about the fragility in
technology because your take here and
this is out of consensus is that the
maximum benefit from the AI investment
boom is behind us. So what have we seen
in the end then?
Well, I think uh you know, in some ways
it sounds like a very out of consensus
view, but it's a it's a datadriven view
and actually yesterday's GDP report I
think was uh was instructive. There
wasn't a whole lot of new information,
but one area where there was information
uh incremental information was around
the spending on software uh as well as
investment in uh in the the sort of core
uh infrastructure related to AI. And
what we've seen is while that boomed
early in the year and added almost 1.5%
of GDP growth uh for the first quarter
that has trailed off in the last couple
of quarters and what we're seeing today
uh in the third quarter and and likely
here in the fourth quarter is that AI
related capex and investment is adding
maybe a few ten of a percent of GDP
growth but that is not a meaningful
driver of the economy. You know, it
really comes down to the consumer and
the consumer is facing significant
headwinds as we wrap up the year. Labor
growth is zero. Wage growth is
compressing significantly. Inflation is
up. That is not a good combination for
spending for household spending in the
new year.
>> But there's no spending. I know we had
consumer sentiment yesterday. And good
morning, Bob. Sorry, I had to get some
water. Um, I know we had consumer
sentiment yesterday falling for a fifth
straight month, but Mastercard spending
plus found that consumers retail
spending, excluding cars, increased 3.9%
going into the end of the year. The
consumer is still resilient, is it not?
>> Uh, well, I think there's a a range of
different timely estimates and and
Mastercard uh spending pulse is just one
of them. Uh, and probably the most
positive of the various measures, which
is why it's getting a lot of attention.
If you look at other measures like the
Bank of America spending data, it's
showing zero growth in November and
December. Of course, that's uh the
retail sales numbers have shown zero
growth uh at headline number the last
couple of months that they've been
reported. And Chase card spending is
actually showing overall spending growth
that is or overall spending in this
season is actually lower than it was in
2024. You add that to, you know, weak
TSA numbers and open table numbers
rolling off and I think the
preponderance of evidence here is that
the consumer is not nearly as euphoric
in this holiday season uh as they were
uh in previous ones.
>> Bob, do you see a recession potentially
on the horizon?
Well, I think there we really are on a
knife's edge and and this is the
challenge with the administration's
policies that have been significantly
growth negative both in tariffs and in
constricting immigration. Two policies
that will likely persist uh in the new
year. And so, uh that really creates
this environment where it doesn't take a
whole heck of a lot to start to uh cause
households to really retrench their
spending. I mean, it's really been
supported by asset prices continuing to
rise and and it's interesting to see
even in this last couple of months
where, you know, stock prices have
basically traded flat even though
they've touched new highs, we've seen
this consumer retrenchment and demand.
And so that really goes to the essence
of the of the point which is either the
administration and the Fed have to pump
asset prices to keep getting spending
that's outpacing income growth or
they're going to face a challenging set
of economic conditions ahead which have
the risk of tilting to being you know a
more self-reinforcing negative dynamic.
We have to remember the unemployment
rate continues to rise uh and the labor
markets are very weak here and it
doesn't take a whole heck of a lot for
that to you know that weak hiring
environment to then translate into
actually a layoff environment and that's
when you know things get very risky
>> right so given this outlook Bob how do
you want to be allocating your funds
>> well I think the the you've got to look
at areas where this sort of uh tradeoff
is is not necessarily well priced. And
so if you look at, you know, which path
they might take, uh if you look over on
the probable debasement path, it is
notable that short-term interest rates,
say two-year interest rates or what's
priced into the Fed is only one or two
more cuts uh ahead. And that really is
not that much easing of monetary policy,
certainly relative to uh the president's
rhetoric about what he's looking for in
a new uh Fed chair. And so that's an
interesting opportunity uh to go long
those rates uh expecting easier policy
than currently priced in. On the
debasement side of things uh or on the
weak growth side of things, there's you
know obviously stocks can continue to to
run as a result of this AI related boom
and you don't necessarily want to get
ahead of that. And so there it looks
like more of the interesting opportunity
is to some extent in the precious metals
though they're up a fair amount. It's
really in volatility, right? I mean
volatility across all financial markets
is extremely low. If you look at
basically all expectations therefore you
know a pretty good year tightly
distributed and the smallest cracks in
that uh with asset prices at all-time
highs is likely to create much more
substantial volatility than currently
priced into the market.
>> Bob, thanks so much for joining us this
morning and merry Christmas to you. Bob
Elliot of Unlimited Funds. Let's get you
an update on stories we're watching
elsewhere. Here's Yahira. Hey yra.
>> Hi Anie. [music]
Intel shares are falling 2.3% on reports
that Nvidia is pumping the brakes on
tests [music]
that used Intel's technology. Reuters
reporting that Nvidia stopped moving
forward with Intel's 188 production
[music] process for chips. It follows an
agreement back in September where Nvidia
agreed to invest $5 billion in Intel
[music] and co-develop chips. Meanwhile,
President Donald Trump continuing to
attack the Federal Reserve, calling for
the central bank to cut rates. [music]
Trump posting on Truth Social that the
next Fed chair should ease policy if the
market is doing well, [music] writing,
quote, "Anybody that disagrees with me
will never be the Fed chairman." The
president is set to interview the final
four candidates at Mara Lago next week.
And Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik
indicated that the rise in US economic
growth should have a direct correlation
to Americans wallets. Speaking on Fox
News, Lutnik was reacting to yesterday's
GDP print that showed a rise of [music]
4.3% growth in the third quarter. He
said Americans will now earn 4.3% more
money that should make for a [music]
great Christmas. In reality, of course,
the number does not tie directly to
individual wages and salaries,
unfortunately. Dr. Bloomberg brief and
Marry,
>> thanks so much. Yeah. Hire. Yeah, this
this statistically is just wrong. Just
because [music] GDP is up 4.3% does not
mean that your paycheck will rise 4.3%.
It would be nice.
>> The direct quote from Howard Lutnik.
What that means that Americans overall,
all of us are going to earn 4.3% more
money. If he's going out and saying
this, Americans are not going to be
feeling this. I don't think anyone else
in the administration will be saying
this because that's clearly not how
things work. And I'm glad Yahara
included that disclosure.
>> Yeah. Time to tell. Let's see what what
how they're going to pitch this one um
in the next year. Up next on the
program, the Morning Calls, plus Bank of
America chairman and CEO Brian Moahan on
the growth of AI. That's next. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> If we don't adjust policy down, then I
think that we do run risks of rising
recess of rising recession. The
unemployment rate has has poked up
potentially above where people thought
it was going to go. And so we've had
data that should push people into a
dovish direction.
>> That was Fed Governor Steven on the
program joining us earlier this week.
What's so interesting, Scarlet, is he
might actually be going back to CEA.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, his term expires at
the end of February, so he's gone unless
they find a [music] way to keep him and
also get someone doubbish as the next
venture.
>> Time now, let's call it, I believe, for
our morning [music] calls this morning.
>> Yes, let's take a look. First up, we've
got Mizuo lowering its price target on
Gemini to $26, noting softening crypto
trading activity. [music]
Uh, let's move on to Truist, which is
downgrading its price target on America
Real Realy Trust. There we go. To $16.
And it's citing near-term supply and
demand pressures. [music]
And finally, Raymond James is
downgrading KB Home, the home builder,
to market perform. [music] Why? It's
highlighting disappointing fourth
quarter results. That stock to down
about 710 of 1% in the pre-market. So,
we'll keep an eye on those names on this
Christmas Eve, but we want to turn now
to artificial intelligence. Bank of
America chair and CEO Brian Moyahan
telling Wall Street Week's David [music]
Weston that AI is starting to have a big
impact on the US economy.
>> The AI investment's been building during
the year and is probably a bigger
contributor next year and the years
beyond. And so if you look at the data
center buildout, which is one of the
ways in evidence itself that's a big
deal. If you look at customer client
spending, like us spending on AI, that's
higher than it was last year. But
frankly, overall spending levels are
shifting towards that, not necessarily
growing at a, you know, a mids
single-digit rate type of number. So, I
think that's part why the reason we feel
constructive for next year. We think AI
spending continues. We think there's uh
benefits to the American uh uh taxpayer
from tax rebates, lower taxes due to the
uh tax bill going through and being
effective for next year. Uh and we think
the expense uh expensing and other
bonuses for uh businesses are good. So
all that leads to our confidence that we
go from basically a 2% type of growth le
level this year plus or minus up to 2.4%
which is all due to that and AI is
kicking in more and more and so it's not
all attributable AI but that's having a
marginal impact that's pretty strong.
>> So much of the American economy is
supported by the consumer and you at
Bank of America have a really powerful
viewpoint into the American consumer.
How's the American consumer doing?
Because it has been very strong. There
have been some people saying it's
starting to slow down.
>> You have to step back. We look at
American consumers, 70 million
consumers, putting $4.5 trillion dollars
plus into the American economy every
year. And we we've tracked the way that
goes in the American economy for many
years. And so in the third quarter, it
was up about 5% over last year. As we
look at the fourth quarter here so far
in October, November, I'd say in a four
four and a half% which is very
consistent with a very solid growing
economy. It you know in the end of day
it's going to me work against wage
growth and we see in the underlying
consumers we have wage growth i.e. their
paychecks are going up and so the labor
market's flattened out a little bit in
terms of job growth and things like
that. It's normalizing in terms of
unemployment, but you still see
underlying wage growth. So the American
consumer spending at you know 4ish% more
November this year versus November last
year is a very solid backdrop. The
credit quality American consumer strong
and then you hear a lot about this
discussion about different rates of
growth among different income tiles or
thirds. So if we look at the bottom
third, middle third and top third of
American income uh people in the Bank of
America customer base, we do see
differences i.e. the higher income and
middle income are growing faster, but
the but even the lower income third is
is still growing and and that's all
good. And that means why is that true?
Companies are employing people. They're
paying people. Now the labor market's
got a little soft as we look forward to,
you know, 4.5 4.6 unemployment. You
know, that is gotten worse, so to speak,
than it was the beginning of the year.
But frankly, this goes back to
normalization question. If you look at
the 10-year average unemployment, the
20-year, the 30-year, or 40-year, it's 5
and 6%, you know, as you go back through
time. And so, a 4 and a half to 4.6
unemployment rate is is, you know, a
very strong relative unemployment rate.
It's just a lot of the years it's been
below 4 and a half% has actually been in
the last 10 years. So, people are very
used to numbers now, which were part of
the tightness in labor in the 2017 189
era. Then you had the pandemic and it
retightened and so it's it's normalizing
but we feel good about all that and the
consumers in pretty good shape spending
more money employed and earning more
money but differences between different
types of consumers and then being wise
in how they spend if they you know they
trade down and all the things you're
hearing the retailers talk about true
but the aggreate amount of moving in the
economy is still growing. So, so you
mentioned flattening out in the
employment growth. Uh there are always
risks to the upside and the downside and
any of the numbers that we project. How
concerned are you about the downside?
Because certainly the Fed is very
focused on a softening labor market and
whether that may be a problem for us.
>> So if you if you look at the predictions
for our team and the other economists
for unemployment, we're kind of peaking
out at this level now in the mid to you
know four five 46 range and then sort of
flattens out. But the Fed has to be wary
because they have a mandate to maintain
full employment. And we're at full
employment now. And they have a mandate
to maintain price stability and
inflation fighting. And those two
mandates can work together sometimes and
against each other sometimes. And right
now we're in that unusual case where the
labor market is getting has softened.
And yet the inflation because the
massive buildup inflation after COVID
and stuff is is now still working its
way down. Our team predicts that the
inflation rate will get to the Fed's
target, you know, through the end of 27,
but it's continuing to work in the right
direction, which gives the the Fed, in
our view, latitude to keep cutting rates
next year, especially in the first half
that will then provide a stimulus in the
second half of the year. Those rate cuts
do benefit the consumer somewhat but in
fact benefit small businesses because in
mid-size business they borrow on lines
of credit which are indicating rate
indices and as rates come down they get
instantaneous benefit and if you you
hear our our small and medium-sized
businesses are pretty optimistic about
next year telling us they expect to grow
they expect to hire more people um and
those small business are backbone of the
US economy we're the largest small
business lender in the US economy so we
see them being very active
>> this year has been good for the markets.
It's also been good for Bank of America.
What do you need in 26 to continue the
growth?
>> Look, we just need our team that's done
a great job for us over the last several
decades to keep doing it. And what they
need to do is go out and get one more
client and do one more thing with every
client we have. And they know that
across all our business, whether it's
our markets teams, whether it's our
global corporate investment bank teams,
our consumer teams, our wealth
management teams, all of them need to go
out and just drive more business. And
that organic growth engine which you
described in our investor day a while
back you know that is intact. It's been
growing with the market and now because
of some dynamics and the repricing
balance sheet we'll get more earnings
lift out of it like we did in the third
quarter. But that that organic growth
engine more customers and more with each
customer has been driving a bank America
and our team just need to do more of
that and they know that
>> that was of course David Weston speaking
with Bank of America CEO Brian Moyahan.
I have to say, Scarlett, he was very
optimistic about where we are right now,
the state of the consumer. They're still
going out spending. Of course, the issue
is the top 10% are really going out
spending and the bottom 10% are
struggling
>> and that spending by the top 10% can
make up for a lot of things. Can mask a
lot in the GDP report.
>> Absolutely. Brian Moan, by the way, the
second longest serving bank CEO among
the big banks of after, of course, uh
Jamie Diamond of JP Morgan, but uh in
terms of annual returns in Bank of
America shares, about 13.6% 6% since his
tenure began back in 2014. All right,
coming up the program, jobless claims on
deck. Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research
helps us break them down. Get a little
bit more data before you get to go home
for Christmas. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Amber Herd alongside
Scarlet Fu. This morning we do have
equities unchanged after [music] the S&P
500 yesterday hit another record high
38th record high of 2025. So
>> I'm glad you're counting.
>> Still a few more days left of the year
that we can potentially, you know, maybe
get to 40 41. Let's see. [music] Um all
the action though has been in the
commodity space. Ignore the fact that it
says that gold is down um onetenth of a
percent because it's up more than 70%
[music]
this year. Silver is up more than 150%
this year. and individuals are talking
about higher trends for the commodity
space next year as well. So, this is
something you don't want to miss.
[music] All right, we are getting some
data. There is still data creeping out
before the Christmas holiday. Initial
jobless claims, Scarlet, coming in at
214,000,
right? And that is lower than expected.
The estimate was for 224,000
and on a 4-week basis, uh the 4-week
moving average, it's about 216,000,
which is slightly lower than the
previous four-week period. on a
continuing claims basis, we're looking
at 1.9 uh in terms of the claims for
overall and uh that's compared with 1.90
as the consensus. So these are, you
know, it's a high frequency data point.
It's something that we look at more
carefully because the jobs numbers have
been messed up by the government
shutdown. We haven't gotten a lot of
clarity on it and we probably won't get
a lot of clarity on those jobs numbers
for a couple of months to come,
especially if there's another shutdown
potentially in January.
>> Absolutely. the distortion from the jobs
from the shutdown longest in in history.
What's interesting though is the
continuing claims that is ticking higher
even though we do have the initial
claims a little bit softer. But to
Scarlet's point, these data points
really do matter given the fact that we
are dealing with potentially this
distorted data. Right now financial
markets though not seeing really any
action low volume today. It is Christmas
so potentially some individuals not
really paying attention to their eco
screen. Joining us now though to discuss
more Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research and
Bloomberg's Michael Ball. Thank you both
for joining us, being in studio. Merry
Christmas to both of you. Um, let's just
get your reaction, Stephanie, from the
initial claims number.
>> It's the the data looks solid. It's
telling us the labor market remains
fairly fairly well contained. The the
layoffs are pretty minimal. There was a
bounce back in continuing claims. We
have to remember that there was
volatility around the Thanksgiving
holiday. The trend it seems like in
continuing claims is it's actually
starting to tick down uh over the past
couple of weeks, which is a positive
sign. Continuing claims are important to
watch to gauge to what extent people who
are currently unemployed are finding
jobs, the job finding rate.
>> When you look at this data and compare
it to what we saw in the latest jobs
report with the infl with the
unemployment rate actually ticking
higher though, what do you make of all
of it or is it just too noisy?
>> I wouldn't read into the unemployment
rate ticking up in the last most recent
print. I think there was a an amount of
the government shutdown that filtered
into the data. BLS said that there was
an impact from the government shutdown.
They can't necessarily quantify exactly
how much. I firmly believe that in the
next December print, we will see the
unemploy employment rate ticking down to
uh potentially 44 uh if not at least
four five.
>> Michael, what do you make of this?
>> Yeah, the timing was different, too.
Right. So, the re-entries from sort of
the college kids coming home had a
factor. There was this sort of weirder
feel to it that made it very
questionable. Uh again, with every other
data set we've seen from sort of the
shutdown. So again, traders are looking
through it, waiting for January to get
the December data with the hope it's
cleaner, but to what you just said,
uncertain if we will get that if there's
a shutdown. Um, lots lots of questions,
not a lot of answers.
>> We've been there before. So Michael,
given all of this, um, the fact that the
labor data is going to be not corrupted,
but incomplete for a while. Do you then
look at the market focusing more on
things like the weekly jobless claims
which um didn't really get as affected
by the government shutdown because these
are state compiled numbers.
>> Yeah, I think the continuing claims is
interesting. You did see some of that
picked up in other survey data. Uh and
also what I'm looking at a lot is now
this beigebook. The trending there has
been much weaker. You have obviously
three points growth, inflation and the
labor market there where you can kind of
extract a trend and all of it's been
sort of negative including the inflation
which has seemed to be stabilized moved
sort of from the forefront in the summer
now to something secondary and instead
now guys are talking about lower sales,
lower activity, lower investment and we
saw some of that a little bit in the
three third quarter GDP where the
investment side was much kind of flatter
than you would expect. Now there was an
inventory drag clearly and most of the
power came from consumption but my worry
is if we move move past the AI pulse the
investment cap x story is much weaker
and some of the like PMIs are reflecting
that now
>> so for those who don't know the bea
compiles anecdotal evidence of what uh
different fed regions see taking place
in their district is that based on
activity or is it based on sentiment
because we know the soft surveys tend to
show uh consumers feeling worried but in
the end they end up spending anyway
>> 100% sentiment based for sure. They
obviously are, you know, talking about
real activity and the Fed presidents and
some of the governors like to say they
talk to contacts in their districts or
contacts out there and this is what
they're referring to in a lot of ways.
But to your point, the shutdown weight
on sentiment, we obviously've seen
consumer confidence hasn't really
rebounded yet. Business sentiment has
been muddling through. If you look at
some of the regional Fed PMIs, it can be
quite funny when you look at the
comments and how frustrated they are
with tariffs and with shutdowns.
>> And of course, it's not the just the
jobs data that is, you know, left kind
of incomplete, Stephanie. We also see
inflation and the latest inflation
report was a good example of that where
we're not getting the full picture and
it looks like we're not going to get the
full picture for a while.
>> No, what we're going to see is the
inflation data is likely to tick higher
in the next couple months and up until
April when we get the bounce back in
terms of rent inflation given the some
assumptions that BLS made. So what we'll
probably see is an environment where
inflation is ticking higher and I would
actually take the other side on the
growth from a growth perspective and our
expectation is that growth is going to
start picking up. it's already seems to
be inflecting to some extent. The Q3 GDP
data were actually pretty decent and my
expectation is in Q1 the the narrative
around the economy will be somewhat uh
the opposite of what we've seen in the
past couple months where it's inflation
is a little bit elevated and growth is
also picking up
>> when it comes to growth. We had the GDP
report for the third quarter rearview
mirror but more than 4% absolutely
stellar. I know the commerce secretary
thinks that means we're all getting a
4.3% raise. That would be great. you
know, our management, if if you're
watching, the commerce secretary says it
says that's what it is. But when you see
that kind of growth, do you think that's
sustainable into 2026?
>> No. And first of all, 4.3% real GDP
growth does not mean nominal wages.
That's a different concept. But putting
that aside,
>> take it up with the commerce secretary,
Stephanie.
>> Putting that aside, uh, is it
sustainable? No, because some of it was
was linked to to net trade, which is
which added 1.6 percentage points. What
we're seeing is an economy that's
running between two around two and a
half percent. Um our expectation is
we'll be running around that trajectory
for 2026. A 4% pace absolutely not
sustainable. Nor is that really the
underlying trend anyway.
>> And it got the attention of the
president. He said the financial news
today was great. GDP is up more than 4%
as opposed to a predicted. But the
modern market when we have good news,
the market stays even or goes down
because Wall Street's heads are wired
differently. He says no one that agrees
with him cannot become the Fed chair.
What does the Fed do with this kind of
mix match you're really describing? I
think they're going to be on hold for a
lot of next year, at least until we get
the new chair. This is probably this is
probably Powell's last cut. It's an
environment where inflation is ticking
higher. Like I said, employment's likely
to start improving. So unemployment
rate, like we talked about earlier,
ticking down and then the trend in
payrolls is likely to be a bit better.
In which case, it's a tough environment
for them to be cutting. So the president
may very well not like what he's seeing
in the first part of the year because
the Fed's unlikely to be able to ease
policy much
>> unless the data shows that the labor
market is deteriorating so quickly. Bad
headline numbers leading to a good
market outcome. The president has made
clear he doesn't like that. But will he
just take it in the end?
>> Yeah, I mean we'd have to have quite a
print in January for the December data
to make it just right so that they would
move. And to your point, then it's no
longer risk management cuts. The market
takes it totally different. You're
cutting now into weakness. And that's a
totally different vibe uh to talk about
what Lisa likes to talk about with the
vibes. I know she's not here today,
[laughter] but that changes the whole
vibe, right? The rotation, the
reaceleration. And I understand, you
know, what you're saying that basically
there is this hope that the budget bill
and that basically the coming of passing
of the uncertainty from the shutdown,
from the tariffs, we all have a better
sort of pulse into the first half of
next year. And that's why we've seen
this rotation trade, small caps,
cyclical, even pockets of value have
outperformed. But overall again the
worry is that now the Fed further easing
is not based on sort of that good vibe.
It's just based on worries and weakness
and then people have to change the
sentiment.
>> Stephanie, what is your biggest concern?
What is the most um high impact but low
probability event that could happen
>> in 2026? I would say if we're wrong in
the labor market, right, and we see the
unemployment rate uh notably ticking
higher, that would of course be a sort
of negative backdrop. Granted, the the
Fed in that environment in theory would
be able to ease unless we get inflation
starting to tick higher. Not not our
view, but if we have an environment
where you you see the both sides of the
Fed's mandate coming to challenge and
the inflation side is starting to to
really pick up, which is very possible
in Q1 in particular because Q1 tends to
have uh seasonal problems. That would be
kind of the worst environment.
>> A question for both of you. Is there
potential for a recession in 2026?
>> I don't think the odds are particularly
high. I don't think they're particularly
higher than uh the normal recessionary
odds somewhere between 15 and 20%. Of
course, the odds are never zero, but I
don't think it's abnormally high at this
back door.
>> I guess a question I have just, you
know, percolating in the back of my mind
is what does it mean if the AI trade is
real and we actually see mass layoffs?
>> This doesn't it's not necessarily a
recessionary back. Of course, it depends
on how it all plays out. Um, if we in
see an environment where the
unemployment rate is just steadily
moving slightly higher because you have
AI, then you have strong growth,
productivity, low inflation, that's not
necessarily the worst backdrop. If it's
mass layoffs, then they they come quite
quickly. Of course, that's a very
different environment, but I think the
way it might play out if it's really AI
related is a more gradual upward
pressure on the unemployment rate, which
is not recessionary. Michael.
>> Yeah, I think you need a shock,
something unforeseeable in a lot of ways
to get us there given the momentum is
still strong. Again, what I was saying
earlier, I'm worried about this capex
pulse outside of AI. The no higher, no
fire seems to be holding and as we're
seeing now, although December looked to
have cooled, the consumer has been
resilient. Clearly, it was in third
quarter. We'll see what happens in the
fourth and that's all driving us into
the new year with some good momentum.
But to the point, you know, there is
still a real concern with price levels,
not necessarily the acceleration of
prices, but the actual level still
weighing on real disposable income and
and hurting the K economy, creating the
K economy and hurting the lower half.
>> The dollar is projected to be lower in
2026 as well. Um, and of course, we see
central banks around the rest of the
world, uh, the UK, Europe cutting
interest rates. Talk a little bit about
how the dollar factors into all of this.
>> Yeah, the dollar is the big debate, and
I think it's interesting because you can
spin a number of ways. If we do
reacelerate and there less Fed cuts for
good reasons, one would think that just
rate differentials alone would support
the dollar broadly. Now, of course,
there's all these idiosyncratic stories
with the euro, with the yen, and even
elsewhere on the other G10s that make it
hard to really look at the basket and
say, "Okay, we're going to have one move
in the basket." But overall, I think
it's just going to be more of an alpha
from individual crosses. And on the Mive
team, we've been having this debate
quite uh vigorously lately.
>> Uh Stephanie, it's the day before
Christmas. It's Christmas Eve, so of
course there's going to be a lot of
people out there doing some last minute
shopping. Consumer spending, retail
sales will continue to hold up for
December.
>> Yeah, I think it should be pretty
decent. If you look at the real-time
data, they look fairly steady. It seems
that the consumer just continues to be
fairly resilient. And then in 2026, at
the beginning of the year is when you're
going to start to get the impact from
one big beautiful bill, which then
benefit some of the lower-end consumers
from no tax on tips, no tax on overtime,
uh, via tax refunds that come in
>> and potentially $2,000 checks.
President's floating tariff dividend
checks. Let's see. I don't know about
that.
>> Let's see what Congress has to say about
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research and
Bloomberg's Michael Ball. Thank you both
for coming and joining us in studio,
spending your Christmas Eve morning with
us. Let's get you an update on stories
we're watching elsewhere. Here's your
Bloomberg brief with Yahira. [music] Hi,
Yahira. Hi, Anmarie. Recapping the labor
market data we just got. Jobless claims
for last week came in at 214,000,
[music]
slightly lower than estimates, which
called for an increase of 224,000. It's
also down from the prior week, which
also total 224,000. and [music] brings
the 4-week moving average to 216,000.
Continuing claims came in at 1.92
million, [music] which were above
expectations of 1.9 million. Meanwhile,
the Trump administration introducing a
new drug pricing model to allow Medicare
and Medicaid to cover GLP1s. The
voluntary model will would allow the
[music] administration to negotiate
directly with manufacturers for lower
prices and standardized coverage.
>> [music]
>> The model will launch in Medicaid as
early as May 2026 and in Medicare in
January 2027. [music]
And ending on alternative assets, WWE
wrestler and influencer Logan Paul is
selling a rare Pokemon Pikachu
Illustrator trading card. Paul bought
the card for almost $5.3 million in
2021. The card will be auctioned [music]
on January 12th and is expected to fetch
between 7 million and $12 million. In an
interview on Bloomberg TV, Paul [music]
said, "The Pokemon market is hotter than
it's ever been. Pokemon will celebrate
its 30th anniversary in [music] 2026.
Keep your Pokemon cards." Got your
Bloomberg brief.
>> Well, I can't keep my Pokemon cards
because I was never part of this phase
growing up. I was not on board with
this. Are you?
>> No. I find it [music] kind of weird to
be honest. All right. Up next in the
program, Anisha Sherman of Burn Scene on
retails winners and losers. I guess
Pokémon is one of the winners this
holiday season. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> There's a procyclical message coming out
of this market and you also have a very
important uptrend in earnings estimates
and GDP estimates and this has been the
key fundamental underpinning as to why
we keep being able to press to new
highs. It could be in an environment
where we're still able to carve out new
highs because of those earnings
estimates, but there could be some
volatility and chop along the way.
Respect the trend, but don't ignore the
risks as we go into 2026. [music] That
was Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
joining us earlier. Today, we are of
course are Christmas Eve. The president
did say this is now a national holiday,
but the stock markets [music] exchanges
head uh no, we're not giving you that.
Um S&P 500 futures are unchanged. The
equity market will close at 1 p.m.
today. We should note we are in the
middle of the Santa Claus rally because
yesterday it closed for a 38th record
high. [music]
Let's get you some more morning movers
this morning in terms of corporates that
has caught Yahira's eye. Hey yra. Hi
Amarie. We start with Dynavax. A big
mover to the upside. Shares are surging
nearly 40% now in the pre-market after
French drug maker Seni bought the
company in a $2.2
>> [music]
>> $2 billion cash deal in an effort to
expand its vaccine portfolio. But the
most fascinating part about this deal
was the timing because the statement
came [music] out just minutes after the
FDA dealt a blow to Seni by rejecting
its treatment to treat [music] MS. Uh
meanwhile, we are seeing Intel shares
sliding in the pre-market down 3.2%. now
on a Reuters report that Nvidia paused
testing to make chips using Intel's uh
chip making process known as 18A. And of
course, this is a problem because this
type of advanced uh this type of
advanced chip manufacturing is central
[music] to Intel's turnaround strategy
and in its efforts to take on the big
chip manufacturer over in Taiwan, TSMC.
And I did want to note that Intel did
respond [music] to this report saying
that its 18A manufacturing technology is
progressing well and that it continues
to see strong interest. [music] And we
end on Nike. Those shares rising uh up
2.7% in the pre-market after Apple CEO
Tim Cook stepped in to buy the dip. He
is a member of Nike's board and he
bought near uh $3 million [music]
worth of shares after the stock plunged
last week due to disappointing earnings.
Amry, [music] thanks so much for all
your work today and this year. Sticking
with retail on this Christmas Eve, will
it be happy holidays for the retailers?
Anisha Sherman of Bernsteeen writing,
quote, we continue to see higher income
consumers spending more while middle
inome consumers trade down towards
value. Mainstream retailers are
attempting to capture tradeown by
offering more value as the middle
continues to hollow out. Anisha joins us
now. Anisha, before we begin, you know,
I'm looking at NORAD. Santa was last
spotted in Australia. Just give us a
sense of how how you think this holiday
season specifically is shaping up.
>> I think it's going to be fairly healthy.
So, we exited Q3 with really strong data
across the soft lines and specialty
retail and discretionary retail sector.
Inventories are lean, consumers are
absorbing those price increases, and we
haven't seen a big pullback in volume.
And there isn't a huge amount of
discounting into this holiday season.
So, all of that suggests that holiday
this year should have both strong
topline as well as strong margins
without a ton of discounting and
markdowns coming out of the season. So,
I expect some good prints coming out of
holiday. Um, and I think the consumer
continues to be resilient.
>> Well, then explain this. How did
yesterday the consumer once again feel
the heat, confidence slipping for a
fifth straight month?
>> It's a great question. We have seen
consumer sentiment down through this
year and and spending still remains up.
I think part of the reason is when you
ask consumers about sentiment in all
these consumers confidence and sentiment
surveys, you're really asking them about
their view of the future and there is so
much uncertainty in the future. So it
encompasses some of that uncertainty,
but spending is a real time data point
and spending particularly on goods has
been fairly strong. We've seen it cave
in other sectors like restaurants for
example, but good spending particularly
into the holidays has continued to be
strong and we're seeing a lot of trade
down into value. So some of the value
retailers are gaining market share as
consumers are looking for more value
sensitive places to shop.
>> Yeah, watch what they do, not what they
say. And to your point about value
retailers, this K-shaped economy has
split us into premium and value. Both of
those are outperforming and of course
the middle continues to hollow out. So
if you are a specialty retailer that's
long targeted the middle that's relied
on that middle, you've got to make a
call. Do you then pick between either
premium or value? Because you can't do
everything, right?
That's exactly what we're seeing. So for
example, some of the department stores,
their premium products. So Bloomingdales
within Macy's is doing well and then the
mainstream banner is pulling back down
into value. So they're trying to
straddle that and be able to capture
both sides, but for most retailers with
only a single banner, yeah, you have to
pick. You can't be both. Um, so the the
the retailers that are gearing more
towards value, and this can be value at
different price points. So TJX is a
great example that offers value even at
higher price points, they're gaining
market share. And some of the premium
names like someone like a Tapestry that
sells premium handbags, you know,
affordable luxury or luxury handbags
under the coach umbrella, that's doing
really well too. It's the middle that's
struggling a little bit more.
>> I feel like premium is always the
obvious route because otherwise you are
left competing with Walmart or TJX which
are pretty formidable competitors.
>> Yes. And that continues to be true. You
know, I I on the on your previous
segment you were talking about the
fiscal stimulus coming in 2026. I think
premium is going to continue to benefit
from that as middle to higher income
consumers get more dollars in their
pocket particularly on the discretionary
side. This is going to drive some more
spending on the premium end. So that
will those stocks will continue to hold
their multiples and trade higher than
they have in the past because there is
expectation that premium continues to
gain market share.
>> Anisha, when it comes to tariffs, have
we seen any of these corporations and
companies significantly pass on cost to
consumers?
>> Yes, absolutely. So we've seen both cost
side mitigation in terms of
renegotiating with suppliers and trying
to find cost efficiencies as well as
demand side which is pushing pricing and
across the discretionary retail sector
price increases have ranged from about
mid single digits to low double digits
depending on the category depending on
the company and the the interesting part
which was quite unexpected is for the
most part that consumers have absorbed
this. We have not seen a commensurate
pullback in volume which suggests that
price elasticity has been fairly low. Um
and that's the surprising part and
that's what gives me confidence into
this holiday season that we'll continue
to see resilience on the consumer spend.
>> What individual names do you like this
holiday season?
>> So we talked about TJX. I think they
will continue to gain share. We talked
about Tapestry. I think on the premium
end that is that is going to continue to
be a winner. And then there are a couple
of names in my coverage that are just
completely dislocated. They've done
really well fundamentally, but the
stocks have derated. So, examples of
those are on the footwear company,
Adidas, also a footwear company. They've
both derated despite really strong
performance. And so, there's much more
multiple upside there. Um, so there's a
little bit of earnings upside as well,
but there's a lot more opportunity to
catch up on the multiple, particularly
if we see a rotation into consumer
discretionary in the first quarter.
>> What happens to names like Nike and
Lululemon? We've seen them struggling.
We've seen them trying to figure out
what their identity is right now. They
haven't quite gotten there yet.
>> Yeah, the market has not had a ton of
patience for turnaround stories this
year. There have been a lot more safer
bets that people have been rotating
their money into. And so, if you're a
turnaround story, particularly if you're
subject to political risk and tariff
risk and consumer spending risk, the
market hasn't had a lot of time for
that. So, you know, I like Nike. I think
Nike's turnaround on a multi-year basis
is very powerful. But I think, you know,
they reported last week and they
essentially indicated that the
turnaround would be slow, that it's not
going to be a rapid um bump and the
market didn't appreciate that. So, I
think it's going to be a slower burn.
Lululemon is maybe even earlier stage
because they've just had a CEO um exit.
They haven't named their incoming CEO
yet. There's probably going to be a new
strategy in place. So, they're a little
bit earlier stage even. Um both stocks,
I think, have some upside, but I think
we have to wait a little bit. It's not
going to be immediate.
>> Anisha, thanks so much for your time
this morning. Merry Christmas to you in
your family, Anisha Sherman of
Bernstein. Scarlet, you know who also
likes Nike? Tim Cook. [laughter]
>> Tim Cook is a big fan of Nike sneakers.
Of course, he's a longtime board member
as well.
>> Yeah, of course. He likes the shares
today and he does for sure like their
trainers and their sneakers. That does
it for us. Happy holidays and merry
Christmas from the entire team here at
Bloomberg Surveillance. Scarlet and I
will be back Friday. We have a stacked
lineup including George Conalves of
MUFG, Sarah Kunst [music] of Cleo
Capital, and Victoria Fernandez of
Crossmark. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance. If you were watching on
this Christmas Eve, thank you for
joining us and choosing us. And merry
Christmas and happy holidays to you and
your [music] family.